Natural Text
I am new to python. I want to define a function with from and to date. If I call the function with one argument, It should take that argument as to date. If I pass two arguments, It should assign from and to date.I defined as follows,I get the below error,I understand the error. But How can I define a function for my requirment in Python?
Required arguments must come before default arguments, otherwise python doesn't know which one the value is meant for.See Dive into python section on default and named arguments.
As error message says, default arguments should follow non-default ones, like this:Refer to docs where this behaviour is clearly depicted.
SyntaxError: non-default argument follows default argumentYour default arguments must come later to non default arguments.The reason: Your interpreter will have a hard time assigning the arguments if you do a mix up. So it doesn't support it and throws a SyntaxError.Just change it to @Edit1: Few languages like Kotlin allows you to have default args before non-default args. In this case you will be using a named arg to set the function parameters.
When you are passing a value default argument, all arguments to the right of it should also have default values.This holds true for C++ as well.Eg:Validdef example(a = 1, b = 2):passValiddef example(a , b = 2):passErrordef example(a = 1, b):pass
Here is how I would solve it: I would write a small class and two factory functions that call the class constructor and return the result:As you have seen from the error message, you can't define a function that behaves the way you want.  If you use two functions it's easy enough to document them and to remember how to use them.
You could get the wanted functionality, but its quite a bit longer and if you want to add arguments it will become very hard to maintain. You can catch all arguments and keyword arguments and then decide what to do with them:output:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#more-on-defining-functions
