Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:What is the correct way to make my PyQt application quit when killed from the console (Ctrl-C)?                    7 answers                Why doesn't Ctrl+C work to break a Python program that uses PyQt?  I want to debug it and get a stack trace and for some reason, this is harder to do than with C++!
CTRL+C causes a signal to be sent to  the process. Python catches the  signal, and sets a global variable,  something like CTRL_C_PRESSED = True.  Then, whenever the Python interpreter  gets to execute a new opcode, it sees  the variable set and raises a  KeybordInterrupt.This means that CTRL+C works only if  the Python interpreter is spinning. If  the interpreter is executing an  extension module written in C that  executes a long-running operation,  CTRL+C won't interrupt it, unless it  explicitly "cooperates" with Python.  Eg: time.sleep() is theoretically a  blocking operation, but the  implementation of that function  "cooperates" with the Python  interpreter to make CTRL+C work.This is all by design: CTRL+C is meant  to do a "clean abort"; this is why it  gets turned into an exception by  Python (so that the cleanups are  executed during stack unwind), and its  support by extension modules is sort  of "opt-in". If you want to totally  abort the process, without giving it a  chance to cleanup, you can use CTRL+.When Python calls QApplication::exec()  (the C++ function), Qt doesn't know  how to "cooperate" with Python for  CTRL+C, and this is why it does not  work. I don't think there's a good way  to "make it work"; you may want to see  if you can handle it through a global  event filter.  —  Giovanni BajoAdding this to the main program solved the problem.I'm not sure what this has to do with the explanation.
I agree with Neil G, and would add this:If you do not call QApplication.exec_() to start the event loop, and instead execute your program in an interactive python shell (using python -i), then pyqt will automatically process events whenever the interactive prompt is waiting, and Ctrl-C should again behave as expected. This is because the Qt event loop will be sharing time with the python interpreter, rather than running exclusively, allowing the interpreter a chance to catch those interrupts. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/signal.html
