Natural Text
I have a package that I installed from a virtual environment.  If I just launch the python interpreter, that package can be imported just fine.  However, if I launch Idle, that package cannot be imported (since it's only available in one particular virtualenv and not global).  How can I launch Idle from a virtualenv, so that all packages from the virtualenv would be available?  
IDLE is essentially So you can launch it yourself unless you built the virtualenv without default packages.
Short answerStart the virtual environmentRun python -m idlelib.idleFrom this answer.Long answerThis answer assumes Python 3.There are a few different virtual environment managers, each of which has a slightly different way of handling where python is installed and how it's run, as detailed in this answer.This answer assumes the venv module is used, and that it was installed following the docs.Note: Some Linux distributions package the venv module into a separate package: Ubuntu and DebianIf the virtual environment was installed in a folder called my_project-venv by running python -m venv my_project-venv from inside the folder my_project, the virtual environment will be inside a new folder created by the module:On Windows, with Python 3.7.1, the files inside the my_project-venv folder will probably look like this:The virtual environment can be started by running either the activate.bat or Activate.ps1 script, depending on whether cmd or PowerShell is used:Note: These scripts don't keep the shell open if run by double-clicking them. Start a shell, then run them by typing the above commands, with the folder names changed for your projectOn most other operating systems, the virtual environment folder will look like this:Then, from any shell other than csh or fish, activate the environment by:For csh and fish there are shell-specific scripts for activating the virtual environment (activate.csh and activate.fish, respectively) and they can be run like the activate script.Once the virtual environment has been activated on all operating systems, running the following will start IDLE with access to the packages installed into the virtual environment:
On Windows, a Python script run from command line like this some_script.py might be run by other Python interpreter than the one used when using python some_script.py command (it depends on py files association). If one wants to avoid this problem it's best to create a batch file idle.bat with the content python -c "from idlelib.PyShell import main; main()" and place it in the Scripts folder in the virtualenv. Also, like others noted idle needs both tcl and tk folders to work. The simplest solution is to create symbolic links from virtualenv to the base Python installation like this
Putting a few answers together and here is how I do this on Window with a fully functional batch file.Make idle.bat in your virtualenv's Scripts directory. It will create (unless they exist) both links to tcl and tk (version 8.5 as of writing) and put them in you virtualenv's Lib directory then it fires up idle. Copy and paste this code exactly into an editor. Change the path names for your current virtualenv and Python install (mine is the standard for 2.7) then save it into Scripts/idle.bat.Run the script with Powershell (RUN AS ADMIN!) to open idle.
@biomed I am on Windows and I was trying this. In my python2.6 folder I had to copy the  python26/tcl/tcl8.5 and python/tcl/tk8.5 folders to python26/Lib and then I created the script above in my virtualenv's scripts folder. Worked great.
Python 3.6 modernized and refactored idlelib. This change included the renaming of several methods. Because of this, idlelib.PyShell must now be accessed with idlelib.pyshell. The following snippet is based on the accepted answer and should work for any Python version:
For me launching something like this just works (Linux terminal):(venv is path to your venv obviously)
I am using Ubuntu 15.04 operating system. I have installed some packages using virtualenv.So, to run the files inside virtualenv including those packages I use the following commands in terminal(Name of my virtual environment is venv):After running the IDLE, you can open file using ctrl+o keyboard shortcut.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html
