Natural Text
I'm trying to use the Python GZIP module to simply uncompress several .gz files in a directory. Note that I do not want to read the files, only uncompress them. After searching this site for a while, I have this code segment, but it does not work:the .gz files are in the correct location, and I can print the full path + filename with the print command, but the GZIP module isn't getting executed properly. what am I missing?
If you get no error, the gzip module probably is being executed properly.I do not want to read the files, only uncompress themThe  module doesn't work as a desktop archiving program like 7-zip - you can't "uncompress" a file without "reading" it. What you probably mean by "uncompress" is more accuratelly described - from a programming viewpoint - as "read a stream from a compressed file, and write it to a new file".Here, you're just reading the stream. You just need to write it to a new file:
You should use  to open files and, of course, store the result of reading the compressed file. See  documentation:Depending on what exactly you want to do, you might want to have a look at  and its  option for opening files.
You're decompressing file into  variable, and do nothing with it. You should stop searching stackoverflow and read at least python tutorial. Seriously.Anyway, there's several thing wrong with your code:you need is to STORE the unzipped data in  into some file.there's no need to copy the actual  files. Because in your code, you're unpacking the original gzip file and not the copy.you're using , which is a reserved word, as a variable. This is notan error, just a very bad practice.This should probably do what you wanted:
I was able to resolve this issue by using the subprocess module:Since my goal was to simply uncompress the archive, the above code accomplishes this. The archived files are located in a central location, and are copied to a working area, uncompressed, and used in a test case. the GZIP module was too complicated for what I was trying to accomplish.Thanks for everyone's help. It is much appreciated!
I think there is a much simpler solution than the others presented given the op only wanted to extract all the files in a directory:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/gzip.html#gzip.open
