Natural Text
I have a CompSci problem (optional), don't worry, you are not doing my homework :) I am having a rather impossible time understanding this question, as this is all I have to go on. It is in regards to a rather elementary understanding of python. I have to create a function that satisfies this requirement. I have no idea why there is a 6 in the problem or what it signifies. "Returns a pair of integers 'root' and 'pwr' s.t. 0 < pwr < 6 and root**pwr = user input.If no pairs of integers satisfy these conditions, the function will notify the user."Like I said, it's optional, so rather than just get the answer I am hoping for an explanation. Thanks you guys!
You're looking for a value, given a specific root, and a power between 0 and 6 exclusive, that is equivalent to a user's input.  An example of that would be an input of 4 == 2**2, hence you'd probably output .There doesn't appear to be any bounds on .
This is how I read it:Create a function that accepts a number as an argument (I'm assuming an integer, but that's not clear)find the nth root of that number, where n is one of 1,2,3,4 or 5. Return n and the root.if you can't find a suitable root, display an error.
To get you started: … is equivalent to:This  notation is pretty common in mathematics, and in a few programming languages (including Python). See Chained notation at Wikipedia for details.So, for each such power, try to find a  such that  is the user's input value.There's a quick way to do this using , but if you don't know what logarithms are, don't worry about that. Instead, you can just try every possible . If any  is too big, then all larger s will also be too big.Except for one problem: What if  is negative? So, you'll need to find a way to count all positive and negative numbers, until you find one where the absolute value is too big.So, a brief sketch in pseudocode:And to test it:See  and  for hints on how to write the loops. You should be able to fill in the details from here, or at least get far enough to have a more specific followup question.
Other answers provided the explanation for the problem description. Here's a possible solution for positive input:For example, if the user input is ; the output is:Note: ,  is always a solution if  is an integer. If user input is not an integer then the code raises  (given  the problem description;  may only be an integer so no solution exists for non-integer input).Note: if  then also  for even . You could add:to include negative root as a solution.


Answer URL
