Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:Open document with default application in Python                    13 answers                I'm wondering how to open files in programs such as Notepad and Picture Viewer depending on the extension the file has. I'm using Python 3.3 on Windows.I've done some research and people have mentioned a module named , but when I try and import this module I get an ImportError.Here's what I have so far:I will also have HTML and JSON files that I will need to open in Notepad.
On Windows you could use  to open a file using default application:There is no  that would do it cross-platform. The close approximation is :that might use automatically  command on OS X,  on Windows,  or similar on Linux.If you want to run a specific application then you could use  module e.g.,  allows to start a program without waiting for it to complete:There are many ways to use the  module to run programs e.g.,  blocks until the command finishes and raises an exception if the command finishes with a nonzero exit code.
Use this to open any file with the default program:If you really want to use a certain program, such as notepad, you can do it like this:Also if you need some if checks before opening the file, feel free to add them. This only shows you how to open the file.
Expanding on FatalError's suggestion with an example. One additional benefit of using  rather than  is that it uses the same syntax cross-platform ( on Windows requires a "start" at the beginning, whereas OS X requires and "open". Not a huge deal, but one less thing to remember). Opening a file with .All you need to do to launch a program is call  and lass in a  of arguments where the first is the path to the program, and the rest are additional arguments that you want to supply to the program you're launching. For instance, to launch Notepad.exePassing multiple arguments and paths is equally as simple. Just add additional items to the list. Launching with multiple argumentsThis, for example, launches a JAR file using a specific copy of the Java runtime environment. Argument 1 targets the program I want to launch. Argument2 supplies an argument to that program telling it that it's going to run a JAR, and finally Argument3 tells the target program where to find the file to open. 


Answer URL
