Natural Text
I would like to choose a random month between the current year and 2016.This is my current, very naive, solutionIt's obvious that this set will get too large in the future so what would be a better way of achieving this? 
May be you can have two list of month and year since, these will be fixed. Then, you can randomly choose between each and make a date to return. That way I think then no need to generate all different dates and no need to store in large list:Result:UpdateJust in case if there is limitation on not exceeding current month if the year selected is current year then, you may need  condition for generating list of months as below:
You can use the library  and use If you want it until today, you can just substitute the and  arguments for whatever suitable, e.g.
You've identified the issue correctly. While the set of discrete items can get unwieldy pretty quickly (actually it won't), selecting a random integer over an arbitrary range is easy.You should be able to compute the number of months between your dates of interest easily. That means that you have a trivial 1-to-1 mapping from months to integers. Now you can dowhere  is your total number of months (number of current month + 12 * number of whole years). Mapping back to months is easy using Python's  API:Month delta () based on this answer and month increment () based on this answer. Both computations will become slightly more complicated if you move away from January for the origin.
just pick a random 1-24then apply some date arithmetic to land on your month from the current date. output:
you can do them seperately like take random year and take random month, then put it together
Try using :
I think I came with a lighter solution than the one using pandasresultsfor some reason, when I replace "if month_count == 13" with "else", it only goes up to 2018-04I would appreciate some feedback on this solution.
I wish my code will give you some inspiration. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.randrange
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html
