Natural Text
How would I check if the first digits in each element in a list are the same? I know that this checks for if the number before is equal to the next number in the list, but I just want to focus on the first digit.
You can use math.log10 and floor division to calculate the first digit. Then use all with a generator expression and zip to test adjacent elements sequentially:For an explanation of how this construct works, see this related answer. You can apply the same logic via a regular for loop:
Use all() as a generator for the first character(s) of your numbers:The list comprehensioncreates a listwhich sounds as if this should be enough. But all processes boolean values, and the boolean value of a string is always True, except when the string is empty. That means that it would also consider ['1','2','3'] to be True. You need to add a comparison against a constant value -- I picked the first item from the original list:whereas a list such as [1,20,333] would showandYou can adjust it for a larger numbers of digits as well:
You could do something like this:OutputExplanationThe function map(str, l) converts all elements in the list to string then with (e[0] for e in map(str, l)) get the first digit of all the elements using a generator expression. Finally feed  the generator into the set function this will remove all duplicates, finally you have to check if the length of the set is 1, meaning that all elements were duplicates.
For a boolean predicate on a list like this, you want a solution that returns False as soon as a conflict is found -- solutions that convert the entire list just to find the first and second item didn't match aren't good algorithms.  Here's one approach:Although at first glance this might appear to violate what I said above, the map function is lazy and so only hands the all function what it needs as it needs it, so as soon as some element doesn't match the first (initial-digit-wise) the boolean result is returned and the rest of the list isn't processed.Going back to your original code:this checks for if the number before is equal to the next  number in the listThis doesn't work, as you claim.  To work properly, it would need to do:Do you see the difference?


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#all
