Natural Text
I created a function and I want to append a number to the list:Why do I have to return a function? It works with and without the return.I was told that the function returns None if no return-statement was reached. But the function, mentioned above, works even if I don't type this return-statement. 
I see you don't understand how functions work, so I added comments to your code to explain a little, but I suggest you to read Python tutorial about functions and wiki article further to gain understanding.Also, I omitted many details not to overload the explanation. Important thing is there're immutable (i.e. integer, i in your example) and mutable (i.e. list, list1 in your example) types in Python and depending on this the behavior will be different.So to fix the obvious mistake in the function:but i is still used from global scope and not passed as argument, so even better:Though the list will be modified inplace and you don't really have to return itin you particular example, so:will work too.
In the provided example, returning a value is unnecessary because the append list method, and by extension your function as well, operates by side effect. Functions called only for side effects are not functions in the mathematical sense (mappings of domain values to codomain values), they serve to change state of mutable objects, in this case by appending an item to a list. While such functions can return a value, Python has a convention that functions invoked purely for side effect, such as list.append, only return None, denoting no useful return value.If your function were side-effect-free, you would need to have a return statement for it to be useful at all. As an example, compare:...with the syntactically just as legal, but pretty useless:
You don't use the return value, so it makes no difference, what you return. You also don't use the argument. You probably wanted to writeand use two arguments:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functions
