Natural Text
I have written some code that creates a function for count how many times a substring appears within a string, the second part of this function is supposed to return, is the index of each of those substring's.The string is stored in a .csv file and where I run into problems is when I try to return the index of the substring's.1. Import the text.csv file2. Complete function counter. The function should return the number of times the substring appears & their index3. Do not edit the code belowThe error I get from the .index is built-in method index of list object at 0x7f4519700208
Assuming you fix when I mention in my comment, it won't work like you expect.The read_data variable is an object that will iterate over the lines of the file (see the documentation here). So inside the function, when you do for substring in read_data, the substring variable (which you override the parameter), contains an individual line, where each element is the comma separated value.Check the documentation for the list method index. You have to pass into the index() function the substring you're looking for INSIDE the list. But because you overrode the substring you were looking for, that's impossible now.As a side note, it's possible that the substring could occur two or more times, and your current code doesn't take that into account.So one solution could be:I'll let you figure out how to take into account multiple occurrences in a given row.
Your for loop is overwriting substring as a variable, so within the for loop, substring is actually referring to a row in the csv file, not the original substring you were hoping to search for. You want to iterate through your read_data for every row, and then iterate through every row looking for a match for every possible starting point in that row, starting at index=0. I also suggest you pass the read_data as a second parameter instead of using the global variable. Note, this function will count overlapping substring as two separate substrings (i.e. if substring = 'aa' and read_data = ['aaaa'], this will say there are three occurrences of substring in the first row).Edit: Changed read_data to be a list of rows (list of strings).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html#
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
