Natural Text
This is my directory structure:Goals:Have an organized project structureBe able to independently run each .py file when necessaryBe able to reference/import both sibling and cousin modulesKeep all import/from statements at the beginning of each file.I Achieved #1 by using the above structureI've mostly achieved 2, 3, and 4 by doing the following (as recommended by this excellent guide)In any package that needs to access parent or cousin modules (such as the Tests directory above) I include a file called setpath.py which has the following code:Then, in each module that needs parent/cousin access, such as foo_tests.py, I can write a nice clean list of imports like so:Inside setpath.py, the second and third inserts are not strictly necessary for this example, but are included as a troubleshooting step.My problem is that this only works for imports that reference the module name directly, and not for imports that reference the package.  For example, inside bar_tests.py, neither of the two statements below work when running bar_tests.py directly.I receive the error "ImportError: No module named 'Project_3'".  What is odd is that I can run the file directly from within PyCharm and it works fine. I know that PyCharm is doing some behind the scenes magic with the  variable to make everything work, but I can't figure out what it is.  As PyCharm simply runs python.exe and sets some environmental variables, it should be possible to clone this behavior from within a Python script itself. For reasons not really germane to this question, I have to reference  using the  qualifier.I'm open to any solution that accomplishes the above while still meeting my earlier goals. I'm also open to an alternate directory structure if there is one that works better. I've read the Python doc on imports and packages but am still at a loss. I think one possible avenue might be manually setting the  variable, but I'm not sure which one needs to be changed or what to set it to.
Those types of questions qualify as "primarily opinion based", so let me share my opinion how I would do it.First "be able to independently run each .py file when necessary": either the file is an module, so it should not be called directly, or it is standalone executable, then it should import its dependencies starting from top level (you may avoid it in code or rather move it to common place, by using setup.py entry_points, but then your former executable effectively converts to a module). And yes, it is one of weak points of Python modules model, that causes misunderstandings.Second, use virtualenv (or venv in Python3) and put each of your Project_x into separate one. This way project's name won't be part of Python module's path.Third, link you've provided mentions setup.py – you may make use of it. Put your custom code into Project_x/src/mylib1, create src/mylib1/setup.py and finally your modules into src/mylib1/mylib1/module.py. Then you may install your code by pip as any other package (or pip -e so you may work on the code directly without reinstalling it, though it unfortunately has some limitations).And finally, as you've confirmed in comment already ;). Problem with your current model was that in  you'd mistakenly used Python module's notation, which in incorrect for system paths and should be replaced with  to work as expected. 
I think your goals are not reasonable. Specifically, goal number 2 is a problem:Be able to independently run each .py file when neccessaryThis doesn't work well for modules in a package. At least, not if you're running the  files naively (e.g. with  on the command line). When you run the files that way, Python can't tell where the package hierarchy should start.There are two alternatives that can work. The first option is to run your scripts from the top level folder (e.g. ) using the  flag to the interpreter to give it a dotted path to the main module, and using explicit relative imports to get the sibling and cousin modules. So rather than running  directly, run  from the  folder (or  from within  perhaps), and have have  use .The other (less good) option is to add a top-level folder to your Python installation's module search path on a system wide basis (e.g. add the  folder to the  environment variable), and then use absolute imports for all your modules (e.g. ). This is effectively what your  module does, but doing it system wide as part of your system's configuration, rather than at run time, it's much cleaner. It also avoids the multiple names that  will allow to you use to import a module (e.g. try  and you'll get two separate copies of the same module).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/import.html
