Natural Text
Looking at a random selection of well-known Python packages, why is there a general trend to not include a  line at the top of ? I know that the usual recommended way of interacting with the file is something like:rather thanbut is there a good reason for this?These packages do not include a shebang: pytest, lxml, six, virtualenv, pip But these do: requests, simplejson, setuptools
 is going to do the installation for the Python interpreter you are running it with and it's library path. A shebang would define that interpreter and that is not desired by the developer.Even if you have a  with a shebang, you should still run the file with the interpreter before it. It prevents you from questions like "Where the hack is the package gone!?"
In this setting, the shebang offers few benefits, and a big drawback:The shebang is useful for reasons that are irrelevant here:It eases using a script repeatedly (less typing)It clarifies how/what a script will do when looking at the source.The shebang necessarily determines the interpreter used to run it. I've written  scripts which I've tested as  and ; in these cases, I simply don't know what to put in the shebang.
Because python packages must work on Windows platform too. is universal command
In my experience,  in various distributions are almost always located in , or at least in a folder symlinked to . And they almost always follow a same standard. So using  works in almost all cases, except for on Windows machine, of course. That's something totally different.Python, on the other hand, is a bit messy on this department. First, not all distributions have python binary stored or symlinked to , for example Ubuntu still only have binary of python in . On the other hand, even for those which have  in , on some OS, like Fedora and OS X,  means Python2, while on others, like Arch linux,  means Python3. Considering Python2 and Python3 codes are not entirely compatible, if using  and run the script withit could cause issues if  was used as interpreter on your machine but really  was meant by the script author.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html#shebang-lines
