Natural Text
I'm going through Zed's "Learn Python The Hard Way" and I'm on ex49. I'm quite confused by the following code he gives:The condition of the  statement is giving me trouble, as commented. I'm not sure what this means as  is an object, not a conditional statement. How can , just by itself, follow ?
The  statement applies the built-in  function to the expression which follows. In your case, the code-block inside the  statement only runs if  is .Different objects in Python evaluate to either  or  in a Boolean context. These objects are considered to be 'Truthy' or 'Falsy'. For example:The above are examples of the fact that:strings of length  are Truthy.empty strings are Falsy.lists of length  are Truthy.empty lists are Falsy. is Falsy.So:  will evaluate to  if it is a non-empty list. However, if it is an empty list or  it will evaluate to . 
He is checking if  is empty or not. If a list is empty and it is used in a conditional statement, it is evaluated to False. Otherwise, it is evaluated to True.In the above code, only the first snippet will print.See the following reference: https://docs.python.org/2/library/stdtypes.html#truth-value-testing
 is a  and when you use it for an if statement condition you check  is empty or not :as Mad Physicist said even None elements in a list means that it's not empty:
What is required for an  block is just something that can be evaluated either to True or to False.  A conditional evaluates directly to one of those, but there are other objects that can be converted.  To see what any given object is, you can use :You see, a list is False if it is empty, but True otherwise.  Therefore, the  block will be evaluated if  is nonempty.  Strings also are False if they are empty, but True otherwise.  Same thing with tuples, dictionaries, sets.  With numbers, 0 and 0.0 are False, but any other number is True.  A fairly common argument to give to indicate to the function to come up with its own value is  which evaluates to False, so the  block will be executed if  is empty or if  is .  (It would also be executed if  is , , , etc.; but it's unlikely that  would be given those)
Take a look at this docs page for Truth Value Testing in python. You should get clear idea about your situation after reading this. Here is the relevant part for easy access.5.1. Truth Value TestingAny object can be tested for truth value, for use in an  or   condition or as operand of the Boolean operations below. The following  values are considered false:zero of any numeric type, for example, , , .any empty sequence, for example, , , .any empty mapping, for example, .instances of user-defined classes, if the class defines a   or  method, when that method returns the integer zero or   value .All other values are considered true — so objects of many types are always true.Read the first sentence (bolded) again, and note the bolded parts in the fourth rule. This relates to your question.So, according to the 4th rule, if your  is empty, the condition evaluates to , otherwise it evaluates to .I know you trust in the docs, but here is a code snippet to actually test the truth values for yourself. (I know it is needless to do something like this, but I am always tempted to see things with my own eyes)And lastly, to test that last statement so objects of many types are always true, just remove the implementation of  or  method from  or  class respectively, and check for truth.
In python, everything has an implicit boolean value. Putting any object in an  statement directly is equivalent (but more Pythonic than) doing . , empty sequences, empty sets, empty dicts, , ,  all evaluate to . Most other objects evaluate to . That makes  the most Pythonic way of ensuring that the list is not  or empty before accessing the first element. The long way of expressing the same thing would be .
In Python, every expression can be evaluated to a boolean value (i.e. either True or False).The following, basic, expressions evaluate to FalseThe keyword False (obviously!)The keyword NoneThe number 0 (0, 0.0 ... )empty sequence (tuple, list, string)empty mapping (dictionary)All other expressions evaluate to True.So, what the if statement does is evaluating the expression that follows the if keyword to either True or False, then act accordingly.So in your specific example, if  matches any of the above cases it will be considered False, otherwise, it will be considered True.[#] reference


Answer URL
