Natural Text
Hello I'm learning to program in Python to manipulate data bases and I can't make this simple task. Please someone help me.I have this list I want to get this result:I was trying something like:I just want to delete the first element of every string for the condition .
Your description doesn't match your example input/output which also differs from your code.Based on the example input/output, I suspect what you're trying to do is strip a single leading  from any string that starts with . And that's not too bad, but you can't do it in a  loop without having an index to assign back to. For that, you can use :Alternatively, you can use a list comprehension to replace :and to mutate in place (rather than making a new ), use the same comprehension but assign to the full slice, which makes it behave like the spelled out loop in the first example:The difference between examples #1/#3 and example #2 occurs if  was passed as an argument to a function, or otherwise is referenced in multiple places. In #1/#3, it's mutating the  in place, so all references will see the updates, in #2, it's reassigning , but leaving the original  unchanged; if other references exist, they won't appear changed.Note: If the goal is to remove all leading s, then use , e.g.:with similar adaptations for the other approaches. You don't even need to test for the presence of  in that case, as  will return the  unmodified if it doesn't begin with .
If you are simply looking to remove the first zero of every string, utilize the startswith method. Also, don't look for an integer 0. Look for a string '0'.Finally, you can simplify your implementation with doing this all in a comprehension, creating a new list with your new data:Outputs:
Just try to delete first character of every elements that starts with :
Actually your loop contained a very close approach to a working solution:but this would strip all first elements. To only replace them if they are  (notice that's not the same as the : ) you need to incorporate you  into the list-comprehension:The  syntax might be a bit strange but just try to read the code aloud: "Insert the replaced x if the first character is a zero or if not insert x, for every x in CIS".The other answers contain much more sophisticated approaches but I just wanted to add this answer to give you a heads-up that you were on the right track!But it's generally a bad idea to use a list-comprehension inside a  loop if they iterate over the same . Mostly you just want one of them.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.startswith
