Natural Text
I have a Python program that can take several days to finish running on my cloud-hosted Ubuntu machine. At it's current stage, I can only see the progress of the program only if I keep my shell open.  -- simple and straightforward. Since learning of this trick, I thought that it would be great if I can check the progress of the program without having to open the shell and find the process using Is there a simple way to achieve this?I have a couple ideas, but I'm not sure how viable they are (since performance is paramount. These programs can run from days to weeks). The first idea would be to set up a very simple MySQL database that would be updated each time a task is finished performing. Not sure how much strain that would put on the server, however--or if this is even an efficient idea.Second idea: have the program append it's status to a simple log file. Then if I'm curious, I can simply download the current version of the log file.Any thoughts? Ideas? Suggestions?
Python have a standard library named logging. It can record the progress while program running. Those logs can be outputted as a log file. You can try it.
Database will not be very good idea for this usecase.Use python logging module to log the status/progress of your task, it very light-foot and won't be much of an issue if you are not updating/logging very fast.
As suggested in an answer linked to the question you cite, you can use GNU screen to  keep track of a long running process. I use it frequently for long running processes and wrote a blog post with the most common command arguments.Start a screen session with:In order to find the screen session later give it a name using sessionname. Start a long running process. Then detach the session with:You can re-attach the session later with:In parallel, writing to a text log sounds like a good idea. Have a look at the official documentation explaining how to write log files with python.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html?highlight=logging#module-logging
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html#logging-basic-tutorial
