Natural Text
I am trying to start using logging in python and have read several blogs. One issue that is causing confusion for me is whether to create the logger per function or per module. In this Blog: Good logging practice in Python it is recommended to get a logger per function. For example:The reasoning given is that The logging.fileConfig and logging.dictConfig disables existing loggers by default. So, those setting in file will not be applied to your logger. It’s better to get the logger when you need it. It’s cheap to create or get a logger.The recommended way I read everywhere else is like as shown below. The blog states that this approach .I find the former approach to be tedious as I would have to remember to get the logger in each function. Additionally getting the logger in each function is surely more expensive than once per module. Is the author of the blog advocating a non-issue? Would following logging best practices avoid this issue?
I would agree with you; getting logger in each and every function you use creates too much unnecessary cognitive overhead, to say the least.The author of the blog is right about the fact that you should be careful to properly initialize (configure) your logger(s) before using them.But the approach he suggests makes sense only in the case you have no control over your application loading and the application entry point (which usually you do).To avoid premature (implicit) creation of loggers that happens with a first call to any of the message logging functions (like , , etc.) if a root logger hasn't been configured beforehand, simply make sure you configure your logger before logging.Initializing the logger from the main thread before starting other threads is also recommended in Python docs.Python's logging tutorial (basic and advanced) can serve you as a reference, but for a more concise overview, have a look at the logging section of The Hitchhiker's Guide to Python.A simple blueprint for logging from multiple modulesHave a look at this modified example from Python's logging tutorial:AndProducing this on  (note the correct ):


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logging.basicConfig
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html#logging-basic-tutorial
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html#logging-advanced-tutorial
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html#logging-from-multiple-modules
