Natural Text
This is what I have so far. I can't figure out what I need to do! (I'm a beginner, so sorry if this question seems so simple/easy to fix)
ProblemYou have several problems here:You  never define  in the head of the  loop.You're using the  builtin class as an integer value which doesn't make sense. You never use  in your function.You don't need a  loop in your  because you are not trying to find the amount of even numbers for each number between  to , your trying to find all the even numbers in  (presumably).Here is what the above fixes would look like:In the first part of the  loop:We are telling Python to comparse the value of  to the length of  each time we loop. We then incrmenet  by one each time in the loop:This basically means that each iteration of the loop, the value of  will correspond to an index of . The loop will stop when  reaches the last index of . Here's a visual example to help explain. Assume  is  and  initially equals :The next important part:Means we are indexing the list . When you index a list, you use an integer to get a value from the position that the integer corresponds to. In this case,  means that we are getting the value of the integer at position of the value of . The last part:Means that we are testing if the integer at position  in  is even. If it is, we increment the count of even numbers, if not we do nothing.ImprovementsThere are some improvements you can make to your current solutionUse a  loop instead of a  loop. It would be the more natural solution here.You don't need to do . You an use the increment operator, , instead.Here are the improvements from above applied to your code:However, this can be improved more! You don't need a  loop. You can use a generator comprehension combined with the  builtin function to count all of the elements in  that are even:Stylistic improvementsThe last thing I would critique on your code would be to use better variable names. Use names that accurately describe what the variable represents.For example, the variable  would be better renamed to .
Using a for loop would be much simpler though:And even simpler using some list comprehension:
You do not need a  loop at all:If you need to stop a  loop early, you can use the  statement to break out of the loop. Otherwise, it will stop by itself once it reaches the end of the list. It does not need an ending condition to be given manually.
This is very unlike your program but I hope to teach you something with it... First of all if all you need is to "keep count" you don't really have to save the integers themselves in a list. Which means that all you really need is something like this:I hope in this just to show you that you don't have to complicate simple things


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#sum
