Natural Text
Recently I am building a exam test system and now I have the questions and answers organized as follow in a txt file:Q1All of the following are basic components of a security policy EXCEPT  theA. definition of the issue and statement of relevant terms.B. statement of roles and responsibilities.C. statement of applicability and compliance requirements.D. statement of performance of characteristics and requirements.Answer: DExplaination: Policies are considered the first and highest level of documentation,  from which the lower level elements of standards, procedures, and  guidelines flow. This order, however, does not mean that policies are  more important than the lower elements. These higher-level policies,  which are the more general policies and statements, should be created  first in the process for strategic reasons, and then the more tactical  elements can follow. -Ronald Krutz The CISSP PREP Guide (gold edition)  pg 13Q2Ensuring the integrity of business information is the PRIMARY concern  ofA. Encryption SecurityB. Procedural Security.C. Logical SecurityD. On-line SecurityAnswer: BExplaination: Procedures are looked at as the lowest level in the policy chain  because they are closest to the computers and provide detailed steps  for configuration and installation issues. They provide the steps to  actually implement the statements in the policies, standards, and  guidelines...Security procedures, standards, measures, practices, and  policies cover a number of different subject areas. - Shon Harris  All-in-one CISSP Certification Guide pg 44-45Q3Which one of the following is an important characteristic of an  information security policy?A. Identifies major functional areas of information.B. Quantifies the effect of the loss of the information.C. Requires the identification of information owners.D. Lists applications that support the business function.Answer: AExplaination: Information security policies area high-level plans that describe the  goals of the procedures. Policies are not guidelines or standards, nor  are they procedures or controls. Policies describe security in general  terms, not specifics. They provide the blueprints for an overall  security program just as a specification defines your next product -  Roberta Bragg CISSP Certification Training Guide (que) pg 206What I want to do is that I want to transform my each question to structured data format (which you can see as follow) so that I can store them in database.organized formatI want to use Python to complete this task and I am sort of know I need to use regular expression to deal with it but I just don't know how to do.Can anyone help with this? Your help would be really appreciated! Thanks!
One idea you may consider is that the information would be a little easier to parse in a standard format like CSV or TSV.Personally, I find a regex-based solution to parsing this input format hard to read.  The existing regex answer is well written, but just requires a beastly regex, and so it's not the implementation I would choose personally to solve this particular problem.  I thought it would be beneficial to add a simpler alternative answer with parsing logic based on common str functions like split, replace, and strip for removing the newlines and boilerplate text.I thought this problem might also be solvable using csv.reader with a custom delimiter set to , however, for whatever reason that function only supports 1-character delimiter strings.You should add a few things to this example such as exception handling when the file doesn't exist, but the core is here to solve the problem at hand.  Of course you don't need to encapsulate in a class either, but it felt natural to me.For an example of using it:Output:
This is probably more than you need.In it's default state, it only requires  Q number  Question  Answer  Explanation  So, you get 1 record per match.  Note - you can get the group numbers you need from the commented regex.And, if you want to add more possible selections beyond D, just clone one and add it.(Be sure to add the letter in the exclusion class, i.e. )  Also, these large and simple regexes can be formatted/edited/compressed/parsed and stringed,with a commercial utility like regexformat.com. On the upside, there is a free trial version that indefinitely unlocks everything except saving to a file.  This is so you can throw partials at it and see them in the database (place holders, etc...to be completed later) Of course, it handles all completed records as well.  https://regex101.com/r/TGkUyR/2 Formatted / Explained  


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html#csv.reader
