Natural Text
I can't find a tutorial that explains/covers return versus print in python 3.3 for my class. The instructor provides the following code which further confuses me.1: defines a function which is taking in two pass by reference variables2: a variable which is equal to the addition of two variables3: return is used here though the variable myFunctionsReturnValue doesn't show anywhere outside this function4:variable assignment5: another variable assignment6: comments explaining supposedly how this works7: a variable is equal to calling the function passing in two variables (?!)8: Outputting text and the string value of the variable SumOfXandYAs a class we're told to run this code on pythonfiddle.com which uses a pre 3.x version of python. Sigh. I can't get a response from my instructor because it's self explanatory supposedly. I'm lost.When I try to mimic this in my code I get no values sent via return.http://repl.it/mVI
return inside a function simply gives you some value, that you can use later. The code in your link only uses wrong variable in the printing:should bereturn in this case assigns the resulting value of the function (the one returned) to a variable, and you then work with the variable the same way as you would work with any value.There is also a concept of function scope: you shouldn't try to modify variables outside of the function unless you know what you're doing (so called global variables), but rather take something via arguments, process it and return the result.
I'd recommend having a read of the Python tutorial if you haven't done so already. It'll provide some more details on how functions work.The return value of a function is what the function outputs when it's called. You won't see anything printed to the screen from a return value unless you explicitly instruct your program to do so with a print statement. So in this code:the function SumTwoNumbers is being called and x and y are passed into it. The result of the function - its return value - is assigned to the variable SumOfXandY. The print statement on the following line then displays a message on the screen.To sum up:return outputs a value from a function, but doesn't necessarily print it.print displays a value on the screen.
A variable cannot be used outside of its function. Instead of calling inches you should have called totalInches :print(str(feet) + " feet is a total of " + str(totalInches) + " inches")All functions (except for void ones) return a value to the rest of the code. The print function worked because it was inside your feettoInches function.
Some additional comments to complement the other answers:In Python you don't need to define/declare variables. All your variabledeclarations like feet=int(0) achieve nothing and will only confuse youas you try to work this out.Any variable that you create or assign to within a function has "local scope", and can only be seen within that function. So when you assign values to inches within your function, the variable name inches can't be seen/accessed outside of your function. Your function returns a value, which you can then assign to a globally scoped variable outside your function, but you still won't be able to use the variable inches outside of your function.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functions
