Natural Text
First, i am having trouble understanding this problem so apologies for any confusion when explaining it.I am currently making a gym workout routine generator which will randomly pull a certain number (specified by me) of exercises for certain msucle groups (also specified by me). I have an array called , which looks like this;Each array withing the 2d array contains exercises for a different muscle group.Now the routine I am creating is a 4 day routine. The first day, chest and triceps are being generated (array 1 and 5). Day 2 is shoulders (array 3). Day 3 is back and biceps (array 4 and 6), and finally day 4 is Legs (array 6). The following function is supposed to set up this system:For example -  (which is shoulders), has the number 5 in the third index of the array. This means 5 exercises from the third array, which is the array containing shoulder exercises.These variables (, ,  and ) then get passed to the following function, which is responsible for getting the right amount of exercises from Please Note: ,,and should be passed as Here is an example of what it should ouput:The error i get is a list index out of range, and it says its an issue with these two lines:
Here is a simpler alternative for your routine maker method.Output :Basically the random.sample() function takes an array and a value K, and returns K random values from the array. Just what you want.Also you have used  instead of . And whenever you are trying to add a list to another list, if you want a flat 1D list, you need to use  rather than 
Try this simplified code to help you avoid future complex bugs:
Let's step back a few steps to get a more distanced view onto your problem.What you want to do is getting a randomized subset with unique elements from a list of lists (what you call an array). The built-in  module provides a dedicated function for doing exaclty this. The function I am talking about is called .General syntax (taken from the docs is):Return a k length list of unique elements  chosen from the population sequence or set. Used for random sampling  without replacement.Returns a new list containing elements from the population while  leaving the original population unchanged. [...]Applying this approach to your problem would look like this:Giving you the following output:
I have a version for you routine maker:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.sample
