Natural Text
I am writing a python script to give me the sizes of my directory and subdirectories. I am getting the following error.Here is my codeI am the only user on the system, I am the Administrator so I thought I should of course have permissions to see everything.  Any ideas?As a side note:PermissionError: [WinError 5] Access is denied python using moviepy to write gif has been suggested as a similar solution/question, below I explain why this is not the case.Not the same, the solutions provided do not apply here. I am admin, I am running it as admin, and I am not using the moviepy lib
In Windows, the Administrator doesn't have access to everything right away.It is more complicating.See: Windows 7 Access Denied For Administrator:The easiest [way] is to turn UAC off.  Folder access will then behave exactly like XPand:With UAC enabled, to access a folder you need to run Windows  Explorer [...] from the start menu, right clicking it and choose  “Run as Administrator” [...]unfortunately this doesn’t work due to a bug in Windows Explorer(But I suggest to check if a workaround would be good enough, and if not be sure that you understand exactly what you are doing.)See also: Access denied even though I'm an Administrator?Workarounds:1)You can catch the error:(of course, this way you would just accept to not having access)2)You can use os.walk():os.walk() will work without an error, but:always traverses all files / folders in all levels.  doesn't show  at allI don't know for sure what criteria are responsible for that. Obviously 'permission denied' folders are not shown (?) (Own junctions and hidden files are shown.)You can ignore levels (but all will be traversed in the background anyway):Junctions:E.g.  is a junction to  in in Windows 7.  You can't access ,but you can access  = .There is no easy way to check for windows junctions in Python 2 and 3. and  don't work for windows junctions:There is an answer that seems discuss windows junctions in python (that goes beyond my knowledge): implementing a readlink() functionSee also Check if file is symlink in python.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html
