Natural Text
Recent I study Python,but I have a question about . In my opinion, it is for limiting parameters in Class, but also limiting the method in Class?For example:When I run the code:I want to know, why not use set_age for this class?
Using  means you don't get a  with each class instance, and so each instance is more lightweight. The downside is that you cannot modify the methods and cannot add attributes. And you cannot do what you attempted to do, which is to add methods (which would be adding attributes). Also, the pythonic approach is not to instantiate a MethodType, but to simply create the function in the class namespace. If you're attempting to add or modify the function on the fly, as in monkey-patching, then you simply assign the function to the class, as in:Assigning it to the instance, of course, you can't do if it uses .Here's the  docs: https://docs.python.org/2/reference/datamodel.html#slots
In new style classes, methods are not instance attributes. Instead, they're class attributes that follow the descriptor protocol by defining a  method. The method call  is equivalent to , which is in turn, equivalent to . The  implementation does the instance binding (sticking  in as the first argument to  when it is called).In your example code, you're instead trying to put a hand-bound method as an instance variable of the already-existing instance. This doesn't work because your  declaration prevents you from adding new instance attributes. However, if you wrote to the class instead, you'd have no problem:This code would also work if you created the instance before adding the method to its class.
Your attribute indeed doesn't have an attribute  since you didn't create a slot for it. What did you expect?Also, it should be  not  (I imagine this is right in your actual code, otherwise you wouldn't be getting the error you're getting).
Why aren't you just using:where  is a method of the  class rather than adding the function as a method to an instance of the  class.
Instead of , I'm using the following method. It allow the use of only a predefined set of parameters:The use of  is to avoid recursion.There are some merits usin  vs  in term of memory and perhaps speed but this is easy to implement and read.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/descriptor.html
