Natural Text
This is a function that I saw to find the unique items in an array in order, I am new to python but this seemed very elegant.How does this for loop exactly work.
 is a builtin function that takes as input an iterable object ( here) and generates a sequence of tuples containing the index and the element for each element.So  emits tuples like , , , . If you use a comma-separated list of identifiers in the head of the  loop, the tuple is untupled. So:will iterate four times, the first time  will be  and  1; the next iteration  will be  and  4; the next iteration  will be  and  2; the next iteration  will be  and  5.Now your statement also contains some list comprehension, the first  in  means it will emit the  values. Notice furthermore that there is condition (the  part), so not all values will be emitted.
You should start with concept of list comprehensions in python to understand what does this lambda function do. In short it creates list of  elements that meet a condition on right side of statement. Another important thing is builtin enumerate function that simply emits list of touples consisting of element and it's index.
enumerate() helps you to iterate over both the indices and the items of sequences at once.Here is an example :The solution you've posted is wrong and doesn't return unique elements as it only checks for duplicates on the previous item only ().To elaborate on what I meant, here is a test run :You can see that  occurs twice because it was tested only against its previous element .Before I provide a simple solution, we need to be clear that we are finding unique items from a list in order or we are trying to get rid of duplicates entirely. A simple and elegant solution would be to use  method. It returns the number of times an item occurs in the list.If you did not meant to discard the duplicates entirely and instead wanted the list to have a single occurence of the duplicate items then you can do this :


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
