Natural Text
I'd like to understand how to use the optional parameter  in the method . Any practical/real-world example would be very helpful.Based on the research I've done so far, the intention of the  optional argument is for non-blocking or async applications[1][2]. Below is the main run loop of the schduler (from the python 3.6 library ). Following through the code, I notice that whenever  is set to , immediately returns the time difference between target time and current time, unless the target time had passed, in which case the action would be executed.Seems to me the non-blocking design requires me to keep running the scheduler until the queue is clean. Thus, I'm thinking about maintaining a task queue myself and keep pushing the  task into the queue (like the code below.) Is this a  desirable design? What is the proper way of using the non-blocking scheduler?[1] What’s New In Python 3.3[2] Issue13449: sched - provide an "async" argument for run() method
Old question, but I just implemented something which used the nonblocking version pretty effectively.When  in , it will call the delayfunc for the time difference until the next event.This may be undesirable if your application, at , schedules an event  for , but another thread, at , schedules an event  for . In this case, if your main thread is just calling  in a loop, at  it will call  because it only sees that it has 10 time units left until . The main thread won't wake up until t = 10, at which point it will see that it missed , run  5 time units late, and then run  after .To solve this, you can change the main thread to look like this:This code will catch up on all present events, then sleep until the next event, or if there is no next event or if the next event is too far ahead, will sleep for 1 second.Ideally, scheduler would be implemented with a condition variable for if a new event reaches the front of the priority queue, and it could wait on that variable instead of just sleeping until the next event. This would be the most efficient and most time accurate.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sched.html#sched.scheduler.run
