Natural Text
I have a problem to understand how asyncio worksif I create a future  then add  and after that cancel the future the done_callback not suppose to get fired?I tried to use the  but I end up with infinite loop.I have a small example code:I know something is missing and maybe this is not the behavior but I will be happy for a little help here.I am using python 3.6**updateAfter set is fire and I bind the add_done_callback to the futurewhen I cancel the future and the state of the future change to cancelled and done then I expect that  will be cancelled too.and  will be True
From the docstring (on my unix system) :When you call  the program will not progress beyond that line until  is called on the ioloop instance, and there's nothing in your code doing so. is essentially doing:Without knowing a little more as to what you're trying to achieve, it's hard to help you further. However it seems that you're expecting  to be asynchronous in the execution of the python code, however this is not the case. The IOLoop will keep looping and check filevents and fire callbacks on futures, and will only return back to the point it's called if it is told to stop looping.Ah, I realise now what you're expecting to happen. You need to register the futures with the ioloop, either by doing  or . The former is the preferred method for creating futures. N.B. the code will still run forever at the  call unless it is stopped, so your print statement will still never be reached.Further addendum: If you actually run the code you have in your question, there is an exception being raised at , which as as per the docs:exception()Return the exception that was set on this future.The exception (or None if no exception was set) is returned only if the future is done. If the future has been cancelled, raises CancelledError. If the future isn’t done yet, raises InvalidStateError.This means that the invocation of  is being stopped at the first . So if you switch  around to read:Then you get the expected output.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html#futures
