Natural Text
Okay I have been running my forehead into some code and I have determined I am just taking shots in the dark at this point.  For some reason getting classes to click has been a real pain in the butt and I'm thinking if I used my own personal code it might make sense.  So here is a little script game I wrote up to experiment. (Its pretty rough I'm fairly new): https://github.com/Villagesmithy/Zombies-.gitI feel that to understand what I'm doing wrong I have to have it pointed out to me in my own code.  There are plenty of questions similar to mine I'm sure but they were going over my head sadly.The error I'm getting is this:And here is the class that I think is the problem:Now if you are saying Gee this kiddo has no clue what he is doing you would be correct!  I'm just hoping you guys can assist me in making this click.  The whole program might need to be burned at the stake I don't know.  Any help you can give would be very helpful.
I'm assuming  is actually a method of , but you forgot to have it take  as a parameter, giving it a parameter named  instead.When you call , it's passing  as  ( is a name of convention; the first positional parameter of a method is  whatever you decide to call it). So when you do  in , it's the same thing as doing , that is, trying to treat an instance of your class as a callable.From what I can tell, the real goal is to call the  method, so the definition and first line of  should be:which passes  under the standard name, then calls the  method on it. It's a little unclear what the  method returns (it seems to return  implicitly on two code paths, and whatever  returns on the third code path, which has a  in it that never happens thanks to the  preempting it), but this code has a number of issues, and it's quite hard to identify what "correct" behavior would be.For the record, the error almost certainly complained about the lack of a  method, not ; the special method that lets instances of a class act as callables themselves is all lower case.
In  you define  as .  Right now  is an instance of .  Then in your  loop, you say .  Since  is an instance of , that is a shortcut for .  That is,  is the only argument given to .  In , you take one argument: .  In this case,  is the same thing as  which is an instance of .  You then say .   is already an instance of , so you are trying to call an instance.  Some instances can be called, but to do that, they need to define a  method.  Your class did not, so there is an error.  I think that instead of taking  as an argument, take .  Then define  as .
One more thing, I don't think the  line will work unless you implement the  method in your  class.  Even then I think it would only work if Zombie and Hero each had the same parent class say: ''.  But I hope not.  'Someone' would have to test that...I need some sleep first before I test more fixes for your Hero class. :) Perhaps  might work.  This example re-worked from your Zombie class works fine when the objects (ie  and ) are both from the Zombie class.  So...Hero.total_damage() might work just as well.  I don't know for sure yet.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html#object.__call__
