Natural Text
I have encountered this weird behavior and failed to explain it. These are the benchmarks:How come comparison with variable assignment is faster than using a one liner with temporary variables by more than 27%?By the Python docs, garbage collection is disabled during timeit so it can't be that. Is it some sort of an optimization?The results may also be reproduced in Python 2.x though to lesser extent.Running Windows 7, CPython 3.5.1, Intel i7 3.40 GHz, 64 bit both OS and Python. Seems like a different machine I've tried running at Intel i7 3.60 GHz with Python 3.5.0 does not reproduce the results.Running using the same Python process with  @ 10000 loops produced 0.703 and 0.804 respectively. Still shows although to lesser extent. (~12.5%)
My results were similar to yours: the code using intermediate variables was pretty consistently at least 10-20 % faster in the Python 3.4 that I tired. However when I used IPython on the very same Python 3.4 interpreter, I got these results:Notably, I never managed to get even close to the 74.2 µs for the former when I used  from the command line.So this Heisenbug turned out to be something quite interesting. I decided to run the command with  and indeed there is something fishy going on:Now that is a good reason for the difference. The code that does not use variables causes the  system call be called almost 1000x more than the one that uses intermediate variables.The  is full of / for a 256k region; these same lines are repeated over and over again:The  call seems to be coming from the function  from ; the  also contains the macro , which is d to be  (that is ); similarly the  matches the  from . says thatPrior to Python 2.5, arenas were never 'ed.  Starting with Python 2.5,  we do try to  arenas, and use some mild heuristic strategies to increase  the likelihood that arenas eventually can be freed.Thus these heuristics and the fact that Python object allocator releases these free arenas as soon as they're emptied lead to  triggering pathological behaviour where one 256 kiB memory area is re-allocated and released repeatedly; and this allocation happens with /, which is comparatively costly as they're system calls - furthermore,  with  requires that the newly mapped pages must be zeroed - even though Python wouldn't care.The behaviour is not present in the code that uses intermediate variables, because it is using slightly more memory and no memory arena can be freed as some objects are still allocated in it. That is because  will make it into a loop not unlikeNow the behaviour is that both  and  will stay bound until they're *reassigned, so in the second iteration,  will allocate a 3rd tuple, and the assignment  will decrease the reference count of the old tuple, causing it to be released, and increase the reference count of the new tuple; then the same happens to . Therefore after the first iteration there are always at least 2 of these tuples, if not 3, so the thrashing doesn't occur.Most notably it cannot be guaranteed that the code using intermediate variables is always faster - indeed in some setups it might be that using intermediate variables will result in extra  calls, whereas the code that compares return values directly might be fine.Someone asked that why this happens, when  disables garbage collection. It is indeed true that  does it:NoteBy default,  temporarily turns off garbage collection during the timing. The advantage of this approach is that it makes independent timings more comparable. This disadvantage is that GC may be an important component of the performance of the function being measured. If so, GC can be re-enabled as the first statement in the setup string. For example: However, the garbage collector of Python is only there to reclaim cyclic garbage, i.e. collections of objects whose references form cycles. It is not the case here; instead these objects are freed immediately when the reference count drops to zero.
The first question here has to be, is it reproducable? For some of us at least it definitely is though other people say they aren't seeing the effect.This on Fedora, with the equality test changed to  as actually doing a comparison seems irrelevant to the result, and the range pushed up to 200,000 as that seems to maximise the effect:I note that variations between the runs, and the order in which the expressions are run make very little difference to the result.Adding assignments to  and  into the slow version doesn't speed it up. In fact as we might expect assigning to local variables has negligible effect. The only thing that does speed it up is splitting the expression entirely in two. The only difference this should be making is that it reduces the maximum stack depth used by Python while evaluating the expression (from 4 to 3).That gives us the clue that the effect is related to stack depth, perhaps the extra level pushes the stack across into another memory page. If so we should see that making other changes that affect the stack will change (most likely kill the effect), and in fact that is what we see:So, I think the effect is entirely due to how much Python stack is consumed during the timing process. It is still weird though.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/timeit.html#timeit.Timer.timeit
