Natural Text
I have a script - works perfectly in Windows, but when I tried running it in Ubuntu it spat out the error message: IndexError: list index out of range.It's a pretty simple script: it imports a  file, reads the rows, prints the first item in each row into a list, uses  to remove duplicates, then writes this new list to a file.Specifically, the error occurs in the module:But I honestly can't see what is wrong with it, given it works on my Windows OS; tried rewriting it in different ways but no luck.Some sample input data ("*_raw_vcf.csv"):Should in theory (and does in Windows) produce a file ("output_unique_frags.txt"; the unique values in column A):
The Traceback is saying that  has no element, so it's an empty list. This suggests that on the Ubuntu system the reader is returning an empty list for each row.Have a look at the csv docs; you can specify a dialect when you set up the reader. I'd say that the reader on the Ubuntu system is looking for a different delimiter that the one in the file.BTW: Is the indentation above code correct? There's a few odd things going on there if so, eg:If there's more than one .csv file, you're only going to get the last one.
Looks like line endings are not the culprit:Another guess is that here is the problem:This open last file in the directory with mask . I guess you have more than one file to process. On Windows you get one file, on Linux it could be another malformed file.You should debug the issue. Print the file name used to open the file.Old answer:The docs say:Note The reader is hard-coded to recognise either  or  as  end-of-line, and ignores . This behavior may change in  the future.I suppose the CSV file was created in Windows having  as line terminator. So the reader under Linux finds empty lines because of this.Solution (untested, taken from here):
Hey everyone, thanks for feedback!Just briefly in response to some comments made: I made very sure that there was only one occurrence of "*raw_vcf.csv", such that,Would only pull up one file - and I tested this to make sure it would work.SOLUTIONAfter the suggestions about the list being empty, I checked it:It wasn't obvious when I had asked for print row[0] (for rows in data), but when printing the list, I noted an extra ENTER in the data file which was being read in as a blank line (last element in the list: '[]'). This is what was throwing it off because .append() won't add nothing.So again thanks for the comments. In hindsight it was a kinda simple problem, but as I am still very new to Python, interpreting the jargon can be a tad challenging. Appreciate everyone who offered suggestions and helped me learn for next time.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html#csv.Dialect.lineterminator
