Natural Text
I am trying to run a sort of application that utilises both Python and powershell scripts. I already wrote the Python script and powershell script, which are meant to work simultaneously but separate from each other. What I want to do is create a Python program that launches them both, is there a way? Thanks!What  I have right now, as part of a larger script, is:
I think you don't want  as script arguments but instead want to set powershells execution policy to allow the execution of your script. Therefore you should pass those parameters before the actual Script.Second: It's not enough, to pass the script as argument to powershell.exe (this way the script name is interpreted as Powershell command and one has to escape the name according to powershells quoting rules). Instead the Script name should be given after the  parameter. From online documentation:-File []   Runs the specified script in the local scope ("dot-sourced"), so that the functions and variables that the script creates are  available in the current session. Enter the script file path and any  parameters. File must be the last parameter in the command, because  all characters typed after the File parameter name are interpreted as  the script file path followed by the script parameters.You can include the parameters of a script, and parameter values, in  the value of the File parameter. For example: Typically, the switch parameters of a script are either included or  omitted. For example, the following command uses the All parameter of  the Get-Script.ps1 script file: In rare cases, you might need to provide a Boolean value for a switch  parameter. To provide a Boolean value for a switch parameter in the  value of the File parameter, enclose the parameter name and value in  curly braces, such as the following: .Third: As cdarke already commented, it's better to use a list instead of a string as argument to Popen. This way one doesn't need to worry about the CommandLine parsing on Windows.Altogether, this should be the way to go. (Tested with small test script.)If you need to pass arguments to the script, do it like this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html
