Natural Text
I got a project and before I begin. I thought to take experts suggestions.Below is the project requirement:I have to write three different scripts say script 1, script 2, script  3. Few of the variable values are same for three different scripts. So I planned include one more script say common-script so all the common  variable values are declared in common-script.Script 1 may need a different variables values those are not required to script 2 and script 3 - similarly for script 2 and script  3.Below are the my question.Shall I include only common variables values in common-script and declare non common variables in their script itself (Script 1 specific  variables declare in script 1 itself not in common-script and  similarly for script 2 and script 3).  Or shall I declare all the inputs and variables of the script 1, script 2, and script 3 in common-script file itself and then call  variables  values to scripts 1, 2 and 3?Which option is best or any other standards I need to follow?The other requirement is I have to ask user to run all the scripts that is script 1 followed by   script 2, script 3 or he want to run  only specific script that is, he/she get options to select script 1,  script 2, script 3. What is the best practices to implement these  kind?Still now I used only functions and write the separate scripts and import as modules. For these project first time I am planning to use  python classes.I need your tips how to use classes in this project and I have no idea on the classes for now. But i am start reading documents.
This question is similar to Object-oriented programming: you can have a base class which defines some attributes and the sub-classes which inherit the base class and redefine attributes. It's up to you to choose.But, what your are doing is a kind of configuration file.I think the best practice is to define all the common variables in a common script. That way you can document them all in one place. This is better to maintain.The other scripts can redefine only what they need.common.pyscript1.py
The approach I would recommend is to declare a class.Classes are a "clean" way to share variables between functions and running those functions in the appropriate order. You could build your class like this:Then in the main script, all you need to write is:
For the project requirement question: What do you mean with "variable values"? If you have some "global" variables (like for example, a file path or a constant) that are the same for the 3 scripts, and you are not very comfortable with classes, i suggest to create a config file which will be given to each script.Then you could change these values in the respective scripts:conf.py file:script1.py (works also for script2.py and script3.py)For question number 3: The best and nicer way is to provide options to select script 1, script 2, script 3. For exemple you declare a function of options like:Consider we want to pass two file names through command line and we also want to give an option to check the usage of the script. Usage of the script is as follows −Here is the following script to test.py −For question 4:Sure classes is a good way of programming in python, but it is not the easiest way to answer your common-variables questions.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html#intra-package-references
