Natural Text
I here have pasted in some code from my interactive story where I want to let the user choose a car for a character and make it be used throughout the story but as I am new with python I may have done this completely wrong.

Ok, I have taken the liberty to interpret your question in an open way. It seems that you want to do something, but you are unsure of how to do it. I will provide an answer to help you learn both how to debug the program, and how to thing algorithmically.The first part of the program is nearly correct. There's nothing too wrong about it. What you want to do is to select a car from the printed selection. The issue with the code is this part:This is wrong in many ways. First of all, car1, car2 et al, will not work as you assume they will. Python will try to find objects named car1, car2 et al, in the function's local scope. ref If it doesn't find it, it will search for a binding of that variable in the global space. If it isn't found it will raise a NameError. Besides, this code will not allow you to select the car. What you want to do is: check what value the parameter car contains, and based on that return a specific value. You would do something with an if/elif statement like that:Now, good practice also has it that you account for input that is not what is expected. In this case, having an extra else case account for the erroneous input, and letting the user now about that might be a good idea, so you could add that too.Notice, that in all cases your function is returning a string that contains the car model, and is not just binding random objects to names. What you have coded, if it worked as you expected it, would be something akin to an enumeration (you might want to read about enums here).
My suggestion is to not use a cars function, but a cars list. If you want a function to return a value, then use a return statement.On a side note, your code makes it look as if you haven't really studied a Python tutorial. Please do. Or if you don't want to work with turning a string into an integer, use a dictionary.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/enum.html
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
