Natural Text
How can I check what version of the Python Interpreter is interpreting my script?
This information is available in the sys.version string in the sys module:Human readable:For further processing:To ensure a script runs with a minimal version requirement of the Python interpreter add this to your code:This compares major and minor version information. Add micro (=, , etc) and even releaselevel (=,, etc) to the tuple as you like. Note however, that it is almost always better to "duck" check if a certain feature is there, and if not, workaround (or bail out). Sometimes features go away in newer releases, being replaced by others.
From the command line (note the capital 'V'):This is documented in 'man python'.
I like  for stuff like this.http://docs.python.org/library/sys.html#sys.hexversion
Your best bet is probably something like so: Additionally, you can always wrap your imports in a simple try, which should catch syntax errors. And, to @Heikki's point, this code will be compatible with much older versions of python: 
Use 's  from the stdlib:
Put something like:at the top of your script.Note that depending on what else is in your script, older versions of python than the target may not be able to even load the script, so won't get far enough to report this error. As a workaround, you can run the above in a script that imports the script with the more modern code.
Here's a short commandline version which exits straight away (handy for scripts and automated execution):Or just the major, minor and micro:
With  module, you can do it by:
The simplest wayJust type python in your terminal and you can see the version  as like following 
Like Seth said, the main script could check  (but note that that didn't appear until 2.0, so if you want to support older versions you would need to check another version property of the sys module).But you still need to take care of not using any Python language features in the file that are not available in older Python versions. For example, this is allowed in Python 2.5 and later:but won't work in older Python versions, because you could only have except OR finally match the try. So for compatibility with older Python versions you need to write:
sys.version gives you what you want, just pick the first number :)
Check Python version:  or  or you can also run  to see how many versions are installed.
To see a MSDOS script to check the version before running the Python interpreter (to avoid Python version syntax exceptions) See solution:How can I check for Python version in a program that uses new language features?and MS script; Python version check prelaunch of Python modulehttp://pastebin.com/aAuJ91FQ(script likely easy to convert to other OS scripts.)
Several answers already suggest how to query the current python version. To check programmatically the version requirements, I'd make use of one of the following two methods:
Just for fun, the following is a way of doing it on CPython 1.0-3.7b2, Pypy, Jython and Micropython.  This is more of a curiosity than a way of doing it in modern code.  I wrote it as part of http://stromberg.dnsalias.org/~strombrg/pythons/ , which is a script for testing a snippet of code on many versions of python at once, so you can easily get a feel for what python features are compatible with what versions of python:
 doesn't seem to return a  as of 3.7. Rather, it returns a special class, so all of the examples using tuples don't work, for me at least. Here's the output from a python console:I've found that using a combination of  and  seems to suffice. For example,...checks if you're running Python 3.  You can even check for more specific versions with...can check to see if you're running at least Python 3.5.
If you want to detect pre-Python 3 and don't want to import anything......you can (ab)use list comprehension scoping changes and do it in a single expression:
To verify the Python version for commands on Windows, run the following commands in a command prompt and verify the output Also, To see the folder configuration for each Python version, run the following commands:
If you are working on linux just give command   output will be like thisPython 2.4.3 (#1, Jun 11 2009, 14:09:37)[GCC 4.1.2 20080704 (Red Hat 4.1.2-44)] on linux2Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more  information.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/platform.html#platform.python_version
