Natural Text
I'm trying to define a simply  class And I'm getting this error:The code follows:I thought it was because I had  and  but now I know Python doesn't have method overloading ( function overloading )  so I renamed to  but that's not the problems. What could it be?
You're using  as both a method name () and member variable name (). Use  and  for the method names and it will work.By the way, Python 2.6 has a built-in fraction class.
You can't overload the name  to refer to both the member variable and the method.  When you set , you're overwriting the reference to the method, and so when you call , it's trying to do a method call on the member variable, which is an , and Python doesn't let you do that.  It's like saying  -- it just doesn't make any sense.You should rename the setter methods to  and  to remove this naming conflict.
You are using  as both a method name and a name for an instance attribute. Since methods are stored on the class, when you lookup that attribute you get the number, not the method. (Python will look up attributes on the instance before looking at the class.)That is to say that on the line where you say , it looks up  and finds that it is , then tries to call that , which obviously shouldn't work.If you have any practical purpose for this code, you can use the stdlib  module: http://docs.python.org/library/fractions.htmlThis is new in Python 2.6. If I needed to represent fractions but was using an earlier version of Python, I'd probably use sympy's  type.A more practical default value for  is probably .  (That way  would be five, not some undefined operation tending towards infinity.)Rather than a  method, it would be more typical to define  and just print your object.Your methods are just getting and setting an attribute. In Python, we generally do not use getters and setters—we just let users set our attributes.You're coming from a Java background, where one of the basic rules is always to use getter and setter methods rather than let users access attributes. The rationale for this rule is that if, at some future date, you needed to do more than just get and set (you needed to process the data), it would require an API change. Since in Python we have properties, we would not need an API change in that instance so we can safely avoid the boilerplate and cruft of setters and getters.It wouldn't hurt to inherit  (Python 2.6 and up), which lets your class automatically do several things numbers are expected to. You will have to implement everything it needs you to, but then it will automatically make a lot more work. Check out Check out http://docs.python.org/library/numbers.html to learn more.Spoiler alert:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#property
