Natural Text
Could someone tell me how to get the parent directory of a path in Python in a cross platform way. E.g.andIf the directory doesn't have a parent directory, it returns the directory itself. The question might seem simple but I couldn't dig it up through Google.
Try this:where  is the path you want the parent for.
Using :Caveat:  gives different results depending on whether a trailing slash is included in the path. This may or may not be the semantics you want. Cf. @kender's answer using .
In Python 3.4+Python documentationAdditional InfoThe new pathlib library brings together and simplifies using paths and common file operations.Here are some examples from the docs.Navigating inside a directory tree:Querying path properties:
 --->  ---> 
An alternate solution of @kenderwhere  is the path you want the parent for.But this solution is not perfect, since it will not handle the case where  is an empty string, or a dot.This other solution will handle more nicely this corner case:Here the outputs for every case that can find (Input path is relative):Input path is absolute (Linux path):

Observe:

If you want only the name of the folder that is the immediate parent of the file provided as an argument and not the absolute path to that file:i.e. with a  value of The above command will return:
For example in Ubuntu:  For example in Windows:  Both examples tried in Python 2.7
You can use this to get the parent directory of the current location of your py file.

Just adding something to the Tung's answer (you need to use  to be more of the safer side if you're on a unix box).But, if you don't use , given your input is would output,which is probably not what you're looking at as you want both  and  to behave the same way.

GET Parent Directory Path and make New directory (name )Get Parent Directory PathExample 1Example 2
So a  helps

The answers given above are all perfectly fine for going up one or two directory levels, but they may get a bit cumbersome if one needs to traverse the directory tree by many levels (say, 5 or 10). This can be done concisely by joining a list of  s in . Example:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html
