Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:How to rename a file using Python                    10 answers                Rename multiple files in Python                    4 answers                I'm trying to rename some files in a directory using Python.Say I have a file called  and want to remove  so my resulting filename would be I'm trying to use the  but it's not working properly. I have also considered using string manipulations, but have not been successful with that either.
Use  to rename or move a file or a directory.
Here's a script based on your newest comment.
The following code should work. It takes every filename in the current directory, if the filename contains the pattern  then it is renamed. If not nothing is done to the filename.
Assuming you are already in the directory, and that the "first 8 characters" from your comment hold true always.  (Although "CHEESE_" is 7 characters... ? If so, change the 8 below to 7)
I have the same issue, where I want to replace the white space  in any pdf file to a dash .But the files were in multiple sub-directories. So, I had to use .In your case for multiple sub-directories, it could be something like this:
Try this:I'm assuming you don't want to remove the file extension, but you can just do the same split with periods.
This sort of stuff is perfectly fitted for IPython, which has shell integration.Note: to store this in a script, use the  extension, and prefix all shell commands with .See also: http://ipython.org/ipython-doc/stable/interactive/shell.html
It seems that your problem is more in determining the new file name rather than the rename itself (for which you could use the os.rename method).It is not clear from your question what the pattern is that you want to be renaming. There is nothing wrong with string manipulation. A regular expression may be what you need here.
Here is a more general solution:This code can be used to remove any particular character or set of characters recursively from all filenames within a directory and replace them with any other character, set of characters or no character.
This command will remove the initial "CHEESE_" string from all the files in the current directory, using renamer:
You can use os.system function for simplicity and to invoke bash to accomplish the task:
I was originally looking for some GUI which would allow renaming using regular expressions and which had a preview of the result before applying changes.On Linux I have successfully used krename, on Windows Total Commander does renaming with regexes, but I found no decent free equivalent for OSX, so I ended up writing a python script which works recursively and by default only prints the new file names without making any changes. Add the '-w' switch to actually modify the file names.Example use caseI want to flip parts of a file name in the following manner, i.e. move the bit  to the beginning of the file name:This will perform a dry run, and print the new file names without actually renaming any files:This will do the actual renaming (you can use either  or ):
import osimport stringdef rename_files():rename_files()
What about this :
This works for me.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html#os.rename
