Natural Text
Is there any difference whatsoever between using  to pick 5 digits individually, like this:...and picking the 5-digit number at once, like this:
Any random-number-generator differences (if any --- see the section on Randomness) are minuscule compared to the utility and  maintainability drawbacks of the digit-at-a-time method.For starters, generating each digit would require a lot more code to handle perfectly normal calls like  or , where the digits do not arise in equal probability.  For example, on the closed-closed range [0,1023] (requiring 4 digits), the first digit of the four can never be anything other than 0 or 1.  The last digit is slightly more likely to be a 0, 1, 2, or 3.  And so on.Trying to cover all the bases would rapidly make that code slower, more bug-prone, and more brittle than it already is.  (The number of annoying little details you've encountered just posting this question should give you an idea what lies farther down that path.)...and all that grief is before you consider how easily  handles non-zero  values, the  parameter, and negative arguments.Randomness ProblemsIf your RNG is good, your alternative method should produce "equally random" results (assuming you've handled all the problems I mentioned above).  However, if your RNG is biased, then the digit-at-a-time method will probably increase its effect on your outputs.For demonstration purposes, assume your absurdly biased RNG has an off-by-one error, so that it never produces the last value of the given range:The call  will never produce  (4,294,967,295), but the remaining 4-billion-plus values will appear in very nearly their expected probability.  Its output over millions of calls would be very hard to distinguish from a working pseudo-random number generator.Producing the ten digits of that same supposedly-random number individually will subject each digit to that same off-by-one error, resulting in a ten-digit output that consists entirely of the digits [0,8], with no 9s present... ever.  This is vastly "less random" than generating the whole number at once.Conversely, the digit-at-a-time method will never be better than the RNG backing it, even when the range requested is very small.  That method might magnify any RNG bias, or just repeat that bias, but it will never reduce it.
Yes, no and no.Yes: probabilities multiply, so the digit sequences have the same probabilityprob(a) and prob(b) = prob(a) * prob(b)Since each digit has 0.1 chance of appear, the probability of two particular digits in order is 0.1**2, or 0.01, which is the probability of a number between 0 and 99 inclusive.No: you have a typo in your second number.The second form only has four digits; you probably meant randrange(0, 100000)No: the output will not be the sameThe second form will not print leading digits; you could print("%05d"%x) to get all the digits.  Also, the first form has spaces in the output, so you could instead print("%d%d%d%d%d"%(a,b,c,d,e)).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.randrange
