Natural Text
I've been creating a studying program for learning japanese using python and tried condensing and randomizing it butnow it doesnt do the input,i have analyzed it multiple times and cant find any reason here is what i have for it so far,any suggestions would be appreciatethis is as condensed as i could get it to reproduce the problem afterit is supposed to pick a random string from the list then ask for input based on which word it is right now it has only one string in the list but still does not print what is in the input or allow input for the answer
Some slight improvements from the other answer to condense some code and the desired behavior (I think) you were actually trying to achieve using your original word list, since using just a single word would be redundant here.You were grabbing a random word, dict's are unordered unless you use an ordered dict of course. So, iterating over the dict's items here is more or less a random permutation of the questions.Not sure what you were really trying to achieve with the  so I just ditched it here for a simplistic q and a style program.Edit: To add explanation for "fancy" parts of codeWhen we wrap an iterable inside of enumerate it simply returns a tuple containing the current number we're at in the iterable -- It starts at zero, everything in python is base zero. Forloops, indexing, you name it -- and what would have originally been returned by the iterable if you had just used a simple for loop.So,  as you see in the documentation just returns this tuple of count / item in iterable. Thus, when we do  we have a tuple containing the count and the key / value pair (which is also a tuple) as returned by iterating over . So, we use  to iterate over these items.  is the count here it is the first item in the tuple returned by enumerate and  is the tuple containing the key / value pair from the dictionary. Note: We have to do  not . This would be attempting to unpack 3 seperate items from what's returned by  instead of just the two it contains since it is in fact a 2-tuple. (A tuple contaning two elements)In fact, should we try to use  it will throw the following error for this very reason: and  are simply string formatters. You can use these to format different types of data structures into strings.  is for putting strings into other strings.  is for putting integers into strings.  is for putting floats... so on and so forth. 
Personally, I would store your questions and answers together in some list of tuples Then, you can loop over those 
This is an infinite loop:The program is stuck at these steps, repeating this code block infinitely. Maybe you can use  as while condition as below.There are possibly other undesired features in this program, but the answer above solves why your program is stuck after printing only one line. Therefore that's the answer to your question. However, what you want is probably similar to the code below.Hope this helps.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#enumerate
