Natural Text
As the title says:So far this is where I'm at my code does work however I am having trouble displaying the information in order. Currently it just displays the information randomly.Any help would be greatly appreciated.
Displaying in descending order needs to be outside your search-loop otherwise they will be displayed as they are encountered.Sorting in descending order is quite easy using the built-in sorted (you'll need to set the reverse-argument!)However python is batteries included and there is already a Counter. So it could be as simply as:The Counter already has a most_common method but you want to display all characters and counts so it's not a good fit in this case. However if you only want to know the x most common counts then it would suitable.
Dictionaries are unordered data structures. Also if you want to count some items within a set of data you better to use collections.Counter() which is more optimized and pythonic for this aim.Then you can just use Counter.most_common(N) in order to print most N common items within your Counter object.Also regarding the opening of files, you can simply use the with statement that closes the file at the end of the block automatically. And it's better to not print the final result inside your function instead, you can make your function a generator by yielding the intended lines and then printing them when even you want.Then use a for loop in order to iterate over the generator function: 
You don't need to iterate over 'words', and then over letters in them. When you iterate over a string (like content), you will already have single chars (length 1 strings). Then, you would want to wait untill after your counting loop before showing output. After counting, you could manually sort:However, better use collections.Counter:
You can sort your dictionary at the time you print, with the sorted method:  Rmq: I used setdefault change method to set the default value to 0 when we meet a letter for the first time


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.Counter
