Natural Text
I'm pretty new to Python and am completely confused by .join() which I have read is the preferred method for concatenating strings.I tried:and got something like:Why does it work like this?  Shouldn't the 595 just be automatically appended?
Look carefully at your output:I've highlighted the "5", "9", "5" of your original string. The Python join() method is a string method, and takes a list of things to join with the string. A simpler example might help explain:The "," is inserted between each element of the given list. In your case, your "list" is the string representation "595", which is treated as the list ["5", "9", "5"].It appears that you're looking for + instead:
join takes an iterable thing as an argument.  Usually it's a list.  The problem in your case is that a string is itself iterable, giving out each character in turn. Your code breaks down to this:which acts the same as this:and so produces your string:Strings as iterables is one of the most confusing beginning issues with Python.
To append a string, just concatenate it with the + sign.E.g.join connects strings together with a separator. The separator is what youplace right before the join. E.g.Join takes a list of strings as a parameter.
join() is for concatenating all list elements. For concatenating just two strings "+" would make more sense:
To expand a bit more on what others are saying, if you wanted to use join to simply concatenate your two strings, you would do this:
There is a good explanation of why it is costly to use + for concatenating a large number of strings herePlus operator is perfectly fine solution to concatenate two Python  strings. But if you keep adding more than two strings (n > 25) , you  might want to think something else.''.join([a, b, c]) trick is a performance optimization.
On providing this as input ,Python returns this as output :
If this is an input, using the JOIN method, we can add the distance between the words and also convert the list to the string.This is Python output 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.join
