Natural Text
I'm trying to understand a particular piece of code in the Learn Python the Hard Way example 35 problem before I move on.  True to the book's request, I've been writing a comment above just about every line (or block) of code to break down what's going on so I can test my understanding of what's going on. I'm having a little trouble with some of the branching logic being used in a while loop, of which I will post (I'm posting a modified version that should help show what I've been doing to make sure I'm understanding things).As you can see, I implemented a few things for debugging, including changing the input prompt to something that shows me what block of code I'm dealing with, and a counter that shows how many passes through the loop I've made.  I'm trying to understand the snippet of code that says:I understand that this while loop is basically waiting for you to enter into one of the branches that will exit the loop (the dead() or one of the other_room() bits).  I also know that the default "status" of the bear is "not_moved" and that the "taunt_bear" branch will change the status of the bear.  I'm not getting the "and not" part of that segment of code though.My understanding is that:Which seems to me would mean that the "and not bear_moved" would be interpreted as "and not bear_moved(False)" which in turn would read "and bear_moved(True)" if you were to simplify that logic.  So, written in plain english, "If your choice is to taunt the bear, AND the bear IS MOVED, execute some print statements... increment the counter, etc."  Obviously that's not how the code works.  I can see from my counter and just running the program that the "and not" statement is not working how I just explained.I guess I'm operating on the assumption that bear_moved is SET by ME to False when I wrote the code.  I could understand it doing what it does if bear_moved is assumed by Python to be True or something.  I'm thinking:Therefore:That's the point I'm seeking clarification on.Thanks in advance.
Here,  means  is .Quoting the python doc:The operator not yields True if its argument is false, False otherwise.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#boolean-operations
