Natural Text
I am learning Javascript and just curious that we can have a variable refer to a function in JS but not in python. Everything in python is an object, and functions in JS are also objects but why do we get an error when a variable refers to a function. My assumption was that we should be able to assign a function to a variable as in JS because they are objects in both the cases.whereas in python it gives an error as in the picture below.  
The other answers are right about the basic facts: Everything, including functions, is an object, and can be assigned to a variable. But  is a statement, not an expression, so it doesn't have the function value, it has no value at all.But  isn't the only way to define functions in Python. There's also .1 Which is an expression, and has the function value as a value. Because it's an expression, its body has to be an expression, which can only contain other expressions, and it returns the value of that expression. But in your example, that isn't a limitation; your whole function body is just ing an expression. So:This is considered bad style in Python. The whole point of lambda is (a) it doesn't give the function a name, and (b) it can be used inside an expression. That's great if you're just writing a throwaway callback for, e.g., a GUI button—but here, the only thing we're doing with it here is using it in an assignment expression to give it a name.In other words, this is just a less-clear version of:That already does exactly what you want: defines a function, and assigns it to the variable name  in the current namespace. Plus, the  version gives you better introspection/reflection capabilities (e.g.,  will be  instead of something useless like ). And, because it's a statement, you can put complex statements inside the body.And, since  is just a normal variable name, and the function is just a normal value, of course you can also do this:… but again, there's no point; it's just a less clear and more verbose version of  (and with the wrong  and possibly other attributes).1. For completeness, there's also a third way: you can use the  constructor, giving it a code object representing the compiled body, a globals environment, and optionally some other stuff like default values and annotations.
You can.the  keyword is already essentially assigning the function to a variable (in this case, ).If your question is "Why doesn't python have syntactic sugar to allow me to give a second variable reference to a function on a single line", it's mostly opinion based. You can look at PEP 20 for a thought about that, though:There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.
You can assign function objects to variables in Python. However, this can not be done in a single statement, at least when using the  keyword. You must first define the function, then you can assign the function object to a variable: Actually, the above is really unnecessary, since Python allows you to directly bind function objects to variable names, which is what the  word does:A function definition is an executable statement. Its execution binds the function name in the current local namespace to a function object (a wrapper around the executable code for the function). This function object contains a reference to the current global namespace as the global namespace to be used when the function is called. (emphasis mine)
You can assign functions in python to variables but not in one lineOr
You can assign functions to variables in python. Try this exampleOutput: 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#function-definitions
