Natural Text
I'm learning about lambda functions in python through tutorials online. I understand how it works but I came across an example that puzzles me (on this page https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_lambda.asp):I don't understand how "mydoubler" function works here. How does it take 11 as an argument when we didn't define it before.Thank you.
mydoubler is what myfunc(2) returns. It returns a lambda that accepts a single argument, a.When you call on a function like this: myfunction(this_argument), it is going to resolve to what is returned in that spot. So this is effectively the same as writing mydoubler = lambda a : a * 2
A lambda function is a small anonymous function. In your example You translate it as apply a function on each input element. It is quite obvious when an input is just a scalar, for exampleBut what do you expect when the input is an array or a string?
as Python documentation says, lambda is only anonymous functionLambda expressions (sometimes called lambda forms) are used to create anonymous functions. The expression lambda parameters: expression yields a function object.you can see it in here what's going on in your snippet of code is that your myfunc function use n as a constant to new anonymous function that receive one parameter called a and return the multiplication of a with the n.In your calling n value is 2, result by your call myfunc(2).when you call mydoubler(11) you call your new anonymous function when a has value 11
As per the lambda documentation in https://pythonreference.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docs/operators/lambda.htmllambda returns an anonymous function.In the above-mentioned example, lambda function is lambda a : a * n andthe lambda itself returns some anonymous function which must be something like But here, as we have already passed n=2 while calling myfun(), hence doing mydoubler(a) just returns a*2 (as here n=2) and hence the result.
Your example has two functions: the outer function myfunc and the inner function lambda. Normally you can call a lambda function directly:Or you can assign some variable to this function and call it through this variable:You can also define some outer function, which will return the inner lambda function:What is equivalent to:In the example above the variable n was declared inside myfunc and in your case n is the parameter of myfunc, which is passed to the lambda function. The function myfunc returns thelambda function with n equal to the argument, which you pass to myfunc by the function call. So the function call myfunc(2) returns the fuction lambda a: a * 2. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#lambda
