Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:Why python need parentheses in function call? [closed]                    3 answers                This question is just an attempt at understanding something; I know what to do, just want to know what is the difference between:datetime.datetime.now().dateand datetime.datetime.now().date()
Parentheses denote that you actually want to call the method, rather than mention it for later use. On a line of its own, the latter doesn't appear to make sense, but in larger expressions, it allows delaying the function call:The callable object stored in fn is a bound method, and it refers to a concrete object. In Python there is no fundamental difference between a method call and a function call: accessing a method by name creates a bound method object, which is then called as any other function. As far as Python is concerned, omitting the parentheses simply means that you are not (yet) interested in calling it.This is useful when you have a function that accepts a callable. For example, imagine calling into an event processor that allows you to provide a custom callable for processing events. Normally the events are dispatched through GUI, but you want to (temporarily) want to collect the events in a list you've just created. This would be a use case for a bound method:In this case, an alternative to using a bound method would be to use a lambda:But a lambda has subtly different semantics and performance. Using a bound method can actually improve performance in very tight loops. A popular optimization in Python is to transform a tight loop:into:If the while loop does really little, this transformation can actually improve performance because it eliminates the cost of one dict lookup and of creation of the bound method. This is not something that should be done routinely, but it is a recognized usage of uncalled bound methods.
The parenthesis calls a function.Works, in that it's valid syntax, but what that gives you is the method itself, not the result of calling the method.You can see this in a REPL:and:
The parenthesis represents a call to a method.
date is a method of datetime. Whenever you want the date you need to invoke (or call) that method - and the way to do it is with parenthesis. When you don't use parenthesis what you access is the function itself as an object. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functions
