Natural Text
I'm trying to make a game and I'm trying to beautifully split the main program into more files. I tried to put all the images in another file, but when I run the main program it shows an error that says that the lists that I'm using don't exist, but actually they are in the other file that I imported. I'm going to leave my GitHub link here so you can understand better what I'm saying.https://github.com/20nicolas/game.git
Note how you're importing images123 which then imports from final_game. This isn't a great pattern, as it leads to circular imports. While circular imports can work, they could result in issues at various points.As it stands, your problem has less to do with the importing and more to do with how you went about writing your code. You want your image sizes to be based off of your player object (which is why you need final_game.man in order to run images123), so it would make more sense to have that as part of the player object's initialization. Eventually you may want to remove it further using subclasses, but for now I simply would suggest adding a method to handle it. This would also get most of the image variables out of the global space, which will help you in the long run.For example:From there you would adjust the code to refer to self.idle (or whatever it may be) instead of simply idle and remove import final_game and other relevant lines from images123. You may also decide (since Player now has more in it) that you want to move player and bullets off into another file like you did for images.There are several other structural changes you could make to tighten up your code, but that's part of the learning curve and I'll leave the rest up to you. Congrats on getting so much done and good luck with the rest :)
Change the import syntax in final_game.py to:This will import all variables, functions, classes, objects etc. from images123.py to final_game.py, provided that it is in the same directory.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html
