Natural Text
This seems to be simple but I cannot find a way to do it. I need to show whether the cube root of an integer is integer or not. I used  float method in Python 3.4 but that wasn't successful. AsbutI tried , and  with no success. I'd appreciate any comment.
For small numbers (<~1013 or so), you can use the following approach:This truncates the floating-point cuberoot, then tests the two nearest integers.For larger numbers, one way to do it is to do a binary search for the true cube root using integers only to preserve precision:
In SymPy there is also the  function which will quickly find the integer nth root of a number and tell you whether it was exact, too:So your function could be (And because SymPy is open source, you can look at the routine to see how  works.)
If your numbers aren't big, I would do:Of course,  could be replaced with something more appropriate.If you do need to deal with big numbers, I would use the  library to get more accurate results.
I think you should use the  function to get the answer. If I had to write a function then it will be as follows:You can use something similar to , but in python because of some issues with the computation of the value of cube root, it is not exactly computed. For example  will give you 344, but the value should be 345.Hope I have answered your question. If you have any doubt, then feel free to contact me.
To elaborate on the answer by @nneonneo, one could write a more general kth-root function to use instead of cube_root,
This is another approach using the math module.Line 1: Import math module.Line 2: Enter the number you would like to get the root of.Line 3: Enter the nth root you are looking for.Line 4: Use the power function.Line 5: Rounded to 10 significant figures to account for floating point approximations.Line 6: Print a preview of the nth root of the selected number.Line 7: Use the modf function to get the fractional and integer parts.Line 8: Print a preview of decimal part of the cube root value.Line 9: Return True if the cube root is an integer. Return False if the cube root value contains fractional numbers.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/math.html
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/floatingpoint.html
