Natural Text
When using  and  for error handling, does it matter whether you explicitly call  or if you simply go to a new line that is dedented from the exception code? For example, is there any circumstance under which the two functions below will produce different results?Update:Thanks for the explanation of  running even if there is an error in the  block. One additional thing I wanted to point out is that the  block will run even if you return an object within the except block. For example, function 3 below will print even after the  while function 4 will not.
There is the error in the  block that's been mentioned already:There's also  behaviour:
According to PEP 341:The code in block-1 is executed. If the code raises an exception, the  various except blocks are tested: if the exception is of class  Exception1, handler-1 is executed; otherwise if it's of class  Exception2, handler-2 is executed, and so forth. If no exception is  raised, the else-block is executed.No matter what happened previously, the final-block is executed once  the code block is complete and any raised exceptions handled. Even if  there's an error in an exception handler or the else-block and a new  exception is raised, the code in the final-block is still run.So as Martjin said, the code in finally will be executed even if the  raises another another error.
The first version will still run the  suite even when the  handler raises a new exception. In the second version, the final  will not be executed in that case:Note that the first thing printed in  is ; no such text is printed for .You never need to explicitly execute a  suite; it is always run, even if you were to exit the function early with , or break out of a loop with  or use  to skip the rest of the loop body:Quoting from the  statement documentation:If  is present, it specifies a ‘cleanup’ handler. The  clause is executed, including any  and  clauses. If an exception occurs in any of the clauses and is not handled, the exception is temporarily saved. The  clause is executed. If there is a saved exception it is re-raised at the end of the  clause.andWhen a ,  or  statement is executed in the  suite of a ... statement, the  clause is also executed ‘on the way out.’
The difference is clear if exceptions are raised all over the place.If only the try block raises an error then they are the same.However. If the except block also raises an error, then the finally block is guaranteed to run.


Answer URL
