Natural Text
My teacher doesn't teach us in class and I am trying to learn this on my own.  This is what I am supposed to do and this is how far I have gotten. Any help would be greatly appreciated!Takes a list of five numbers from the user  Prints the list  Prints the average  Modifies the list so each element is one greater than it was before  Prints the modified listThanks for your help you tube can only go so far!
The main functions that are going to be useful to you here are  and sum() returns the the sum of items in a iterablelen() returns the length of a python objectUsing these functions, your case is easy to apply these too:As Shashank pointed out, the recommended way is to define a parameter in the function and then pass the argument of your list when calling the function. Wasn't sure if you had learned about parameters yet, so I originally left it out. Here it is anyway: The benefit of this is if you have multiple lists, you don't need a new function, just change the argument in the function call.
You can simply use  to get your average if you want to use the library functions.Otherwise, if you just want to know how to change your code, take a look at the error it generates:Obviously, we need to pass in the list to . Here's a very naive way of computing the averageThis could be easily replaced by my earlier code:
The solution I provided makes use of Python 3, which you appear to be using.I used a little bit of fancy stuff to take the user input that handles errors if they arise, but really you should not be worrying about stuff like that.  The split() string method just splits up strings into a list of individual smaller strings using whatever parameter you give it. In this case, I split it up on every comma. I added error handling because if you end a string in a comma, the input function will not work.I also made use of list comprehension, a type of expression in python that creates lists based on the parameters passed within the brackets. This is seen in the code below:This takes each string within the list of strings created by split() and makes it into a number. We now have our desired list of numbers.Beyond that, we have the list_modifier function, which first states the list of numbers with string concatenation. It then uses the sum() function to find the sum of all of the elements of the list and divides that sum by the length of the list.The for code block takes each element in the list and adds one to it. String concatenation is used once again to finally show our modified list.I really hoped this solution helped, sorry if it was a bit overly-complex. Try/except blocks can be quite useful for handling errors, I really recommend you look into them later on. See the Python documentation as well if you want to get ahead in class.Good luck and have fun!


Answer URL
