Natural Text
If I import a module defining a class of the same name belonging to a package, it is imported as a Class, not a Module because of the __init__.py of the parent package. See different import results at different directories for details. In Python shell or ipython shell, if I dofrom MyPak import MyModMyModule is always imported as Class thus I can not reload it (reload() works only for modules). Run from MyPak import MyModagain does not seem to update the Class definition. Could anyone suggest a way to update the class in python shell? ps. without restarting the python interpreter. pps. Just in case you have the code in hand and want to test it: I am actually talking about BioPython, and I am working on Bio.PDB.PDBParser. I have an ipython shell (v0.10) and edit PDBParser.py. Just got no way to reload it in ipython.so here is what I did:I could not see the printed text. The changes were not applied somehow. 
On Python 3 only, import the reload function:On both Python 2.x, and 3.x, you can then simply call reload on the module:However, instances of the old class will not be updated (there's simply no code that describes the update mechanism).
I finally found the answer:after editing MyPak/MyMod.py file, to reload the class MyMod in the file MyMod.py, one needs toCaveats:Executing del MyPak or del MyMod or del MyPak.MyMod does not solve the problem since it simply removes the name binding. Python only searches sys.modules to see whether the modules had already been imported. Check out the discussion in the post module name in sys.modules and globals().When reloading MyPak, python tries to execute the line from MyMod import MyMod in MyPak/__init__.py. However, it finds MyPak.MyMod in sys.modules, thus it will NOTreload MyMod although MyPak/MyMod.py has been updated. And you will find that no new MyPak/MyMod.pyc is generated.
There are thee ways to solve this:1. Use import MyPak.MyMod instead of from MyPak import MyModThen you can write:and it works.2. Use IPython.lib.deepreload3. Use autoreload magic
I have one myfile.py file which contains one class MyClassTo import just do:To reload:This is very useful while building modules.one can put these inside a function and just call the function
You can use a magic function:
It works for me using python 3.5.2:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/importlib.html#importlib.reload
