Natural Text
I'm new to Python and learning how to do regression analysis with  in Python (moving from R to Python and thinking in R ways). My minimum working example is below:I want to understand the output of  and . Where I can get the document of these components and examples of these pieces?
Man, that is simple "googling" / reading the doc page. What is maybe confusing is the use of . This is to provide the possibility of entering R-style formulas. The Docs of statsmodels are located here: StatsModels Index Page. Scroll down until you reach "Table of Contents". There click on Linear Regression. Scrolling down to  there are links to  and . The correct model class is already pointed out by @Bill Bell: it is OLS. Below , you can find the link to the documentation of , where it states that  returns a  object.The RegressionResults doc page explains the attributes you are interested in.Note that:attributes starting/ending in double underscore , e.g.  etc. are Python special attributes.you can get help inside the Python interpreter by appending , e.g. by typing  (much like in  where you pre-pend the ) 
dir() is used to list all the attributes, methods and variables in a module just like in R as library(lme4)methods(class = "merMod")You can also try reg1.dict
Some points to know about Python.Python have built-in offline documentation in python try command in python interpreter If you want to see online, you can visit pydocs for generic help. And for package specific help, visit pypi (Python package index)Now specific to your problem. help for statsmodels. which redirects to HomepageFinally, here is a page which may interest you: Fitting models using R-style formulas.
Googling for this gave me the page, http://www.statsmodels.org/dev/generated/statsmodels.regression.linear_model.OLS.html, which includes a link to . I don't know that this has everything you need. I hope it's a leg up.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html?highlight=special%20attributes
