Natural Text
trying to build my first game for a python course I'm doing.How would i get this for-loop to iterate through the entire list changing each value to the word 'bull'?Thank you!Input:Output:
This is a more interesting problem than it first appears.will iterate over 1,2,3,4.checks if 1,2,3,4, respectively, are in , and sets  to .Since Python is zero-based indexed, what a simple guess would expect to see is this:Instead you see this:What gives? And what is zero-based indexing?Zero-based indexing just means that, if you want the first element of something, you call it at index 0. In other words, if , then  gives , and  gives . Confusing, and there are debates among some computer scientists whether this is actually the best way to do it. Some languages, like Fortran and Julia, have one-based indexing, so something like what you're trying to do would actually work there.Now back to the problem: let's go loop-by-loop.On your first loop, , so  evaluates to  and  evaluates to: .On your second loop, , but  evaluates to False! Remember that , so there's no longer a 2 in , and it skips element assignment!On the third loop,  is , so now  and .On the fourth loop, there is no 4 in , so nothing happens.For what you're trying to accomplish instead, you can approach this in one of two ways:In this method,  is initialized at 0, and increased by one each loop. So  will span: . Perfect for zero-based indexing!Another approach is to do this:When  is 1,  gives you , and remember that .
You could use  to check if elements at corresponding index of two lists are same. Note: List indices start from . So, you need to assign  to index  of .Lastly if you need a 1-liner:
If  is , then  will write to , but the position of  in the  list is actually .What you want is to use the indexes of the values of  to manipulate the corresponding values in :If you actually want to replace the value in , regardless of its index, you need to find the index to manipulate first:Or, even shorter, use a list comprehension:
You can try the below basic code.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#zip
