Natural Text
Sorry if this has already been asked, I'm not sure exactly how to describe my question in a sentence anyway. I'm doing some work for my bioinformatics course, and I've begun to see variables declared when functions are called, instead of just passing the argument (see line 5 below).What is the purpose of  when  is never used again? Why not just say ?If it's necessary for my question, this is just code we were given to use, not written by myself. Pixmap refers to this code:
There is not a local variable called  being initialized, you are just explicitly stating which parameter of the function you are passing.You might use this if there are multiple optional parameters in a function:Example:If I want to change , but leave  as default, I must specify when I call the function.Even when you aren't setting a particular optional parameter however, there is nothing wrong with passing an argument by its keyword.
 is a  array with dimension >= 2. You can test this by printing .The line you refer to is calculating the  of an array along an axis. In other words,  is an argument of the  method. See  documentation for more details.You are right in that the  parameter may be omitted, i.e.  is equivalent to . Most likely it was explicitly stated for clarity.
This looks a bit like the variable assignment syntax because of the , but it is actually a very different feature:When you call functions, you can specify which variables to set to what using the "keyword argument" syntax. This allows you to set specific parameters by name:This is very useful with default arguments:If you wanted to set  with the normal syntax, you would have to specify an argument for  too.Using the keyword argument syntax, you can omit this:Keyword arguments are often, like in this case, also used to make the purpose of a parameter clear to the reader. If you see:It is not immediately clear what the  meas. However, if you seeyou immediately know what  refers to and why it's thereAlso see this section of the python docs


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#keyword-arguments
