Natural Text
I am working on django project.where user can upload a csv file and stored into database.Most of the csv file i saw 1st row contain header and then under the values but my case my header presents on column.like this(my csv data)I did not understand how to save this type of data on my django model.
You can transpose your data. I think it is more appropriate for your dataset in order to do real analysis. Usually things such as  would be the row index and the names such  would be the columns. This will allow you to do further analysis (mean, std, variances, ptc_change, group_by) and use pandas at its fullest. Thus said:Also, as @H.E. Lee pointed out. In order to save your model to your database, you can either use the method  in your dataframe to save in mysql (e.g. your connection), if you're using mongodb you can use  and then import the data, or you can manually set your function transformation to your database.
You can flip it with the built-in CSV module quite easily, no need for cumbersome modules like  (which in turn requires NumPy...)... Since you didn't define the Python version you're using, and this procedure differs slightly between the versions, I'll assume Python 3.x:If you're using Python 2.x you should also use  instead of  and you don't have to turn the  output into a list (it already is).Also, if the rows are uneven in your CSV you might want to use  ( in Python 2.x) instead.Either way, this will give you a 2D list  where the first element is your header and the rest of them are the related data. What you plan to do from there depends purely on your DB... If you want to deal with the data only, just skip the first element of  when iterating and you're done.
Given your data it may be best to store each row as a string entry using TextField. That way you can be sure not to lose any structure going forward.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#zip
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html#itertools.zip_longest
