Natural Text
How do you handle module specific exceptions in Python?For example, if I wanted to catch an error thrown from the sqlite3 module in python, what would I place in the {} to handle that exception?
Checking through the documentation on the sqlite3 module, the following should workThat is just one of several errors that this specific module can throw, and each of the errors can be handled by replacing the above sqlite3.Error part with the needed exception.
Proper module docs list the module specific exceptions that the module might raise, so module users can understand and possibly catch them.  The sqlite3 docs contain this.You can catch any of these.  The socket module doc, for instance, has a similar section.
The answer is already here, How to reference an exception class in Python?, though you wouldn't know it by the title.I read the question (in the current form) as a bog-simple imported class syntax question. The SQLLite docs page on exceptions gives an example, but doesn't describe how to implement the SQLLite exceptions explicitly. And it shouldn't. I believe an example should be given on the Python.org exceptions page, but you won't find even an example there--just this:"Many standard modules define their own exceptions to report errors  that may occur in functions they define. More information on classes  is presented in chapter Classes."You follow the link and now you're on page one, paragraph one of Python Classes. *Smack* If you're a novice, you start reading and if you haven't returned to google, then you get to this,By the way [my emphasis], I use the word attribute for any name following a dot —  for example, in the expression z.real, real is an attribute of the  object z. Strictly speaking, references to names in modules are  attribute references: in the expression modname.funcname, modname is a  module object and funcname is an attribute of it. In this case there  happens to be a straightforward mapping between the module’s  attributes and the global names defined in the module: they share the  same namespace!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sqlite3.html#exceptions
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sqlite3.html#exceptions
