Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:Python parsing date with strptime                    2 answers                I'm starting out as a Research Assistant at a lab at UMD and I am having trouble with the coding aspect of the work. I am running python 2.7.12 w/ Anaconda 4.2.0. I was given a text file with the task of reading it into python and graphing it using matplotlib. The text file is in this format 20170109 001203 379.00 22824.13 1.00where the last two columns can be ignored, the first is the date, the second is the time in HH:MM:SS. and the third column is ppm (parts per million). I have been able to read the data into python but have not figured out how to differentiate the first two columns as dates and times. I am thinking of doing something using datetime but am not sure what inputs I should use. From there I would like to plot the data with time (both yyyy MMM dddd and HH MM SS) on the x-axis, and ppm on the y-axis, using matplotlib through numpy.
To obtain the interesting part of the input, you can slice the input stringLater, use strptime function to parse a string into date with time.Now you can use dt as x-axis points. To see how to use dates in Matplotlib, you can check this Matplotlib example.Good luck!EDITTo read the file with multiple lines, you can use readlines() which will create a list. You can loop over that list to extract each line and parse it to date & time.Whole code now will look like this:
I would start by splitting up the text file:Then you could extract it bit by bit with date:If you get stuck in the plotting you should open up a new question. I recommend going here http://matplotlib.org/gallery.html and clicking on a plot you like. It will provide all the code you need.
Assuming all the date strings are going to have the same format...The reason this is tricky is because you need to somehow differentiate between the different units of time when you do your string -> date conversion. Code is very crude but it should provide some insight to your issue.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-strptime-behavior
