Natural Text
Sure I could write this myself, but before I go reinventing the wheel is there a function that already does this?
Given an instance  of datetime.date,  will give you the quarter (0 for first quarter, 1 for second quarter, etc -- add 1 if you need to count from 1 instead;-).Originally two answers, multiply upvoted and even originally accepted (both currently deleted), were buggy -- not doing the  before the division, and dividing by 4 instead of 3.  Since  goes 1 to 12, it's easy to check for yourself what formula is right:gives  -- two four-month quarters and a single-month one (eep).gives  -- now doesn't this look vastly preferable to you?-)This proves that the question is well warranted, I think;-).I don't think the datetime module should necessarily have every possible useful calendric function, but I do know I maintain a (well-tested;-)  module for the use of my (and others') projects at work, which has many little functions to perform all of these calendric computations -- some are complex, some simple, but there's no reason to do the work over and over (even simple work) or risk bugs in such computations;-).
IF you are already using , it's quite simple.If you have a  column in a dataframe, you can easily create a new  column:
I would suggest another arguably cleaner solution. If X is a  instance, then the quarter is:ceil has to be imported from math module as it can't be accessed directly. 
For anyone trying to get the quarter of the fiscal year, which may differ from the calendar year, I wrote a Python module to do just this.Installation is simple. Just run:There are no dependencies, and  should work for both Python 2 and 3.It's basically a wrapper around the built-in datetime module, so any  commands you are already familiar with will work. Here's a demo: is hosted on GitHub and PyPI. Documentation can be found at Read the Docs. If you're looking for any features that it doesn't currently have, let me know!
if  is the month number...
This is an old question but still worthy of discussion.Here is my solution, using the excellent dateutil module.So  is the first day of the quarter, and  is the last day of the quarter (calculated by finding the first day of the next quarter, minus one day).
For those, who are looking for financial year quarter data,using pandas,reference: pandas period index
hmmm so calculations can go wrong, here is a better version (just for the sake of it)
Here is a verbose, but also readable solution that will work for datetime and date instances
This method works for any mapping:We have just generated a function This method is also fool-proof
Here is an example of a function that gets a datetime.datetime object and returns a unique string for each quarter:And the output is:
using dictionaries, you can pull this off by 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html
