Natural Text
Is there a simple way to run a Python script on Windows/Linux/OS X?On the latter two,  works, but on Windows I get the following error:monkut's comment: The use case isn't clear. Why use subprocess to run a python script? Is there something preventing you from importing the script and calling the necessary function?I was writing a quick script to test the overall functionality of a Python-command-line tool (to test it on various platforms). Basically it had to create a bunch of files in a temp folder, run the script on this and check the files were renamed correctly.I could have imported the script and called the function, but since it relies on  and uses , I would have needed to do something like..Also, I wanted to capture the stdout and stderr for debugging incase something went wrong.Of course a better way would be to write the script in more unit-testable way, but the script is basically "done" and I'm doing a final batch of testing before doing a "1.0" release (after which I'm going to do a rewrite/restructure, which will be far tidier and more testable)Basically, it was much easier to simply run the script as a process, after finding the  variable. I would have written it as a shell-script, but that wouldn't have been cross-platform. The final script can be found here
Just found  - the full path to the current Python executable, which can be used to run the script (instead of relying on the shbang, which obviously doesn't work on Windows)
How about this:This tells  to use the OS shell to open your script, and works on anything that you can just run in cmd.exe.Additionally, this will search the PATH for "myscript.py" - which could be desirable.
Yes  works like a charm.  On Windows the  file extension is recognized, so Python is invoked to process it (on *NIX just the usual shebang).  The path environment controls whether things are seen.  So the first arg to  is just the name of the script.
It looks like windows tries to run the script using its own EXE framework rather than call it like Try,Edit: "python" would need to be on your path.
You are using a pathname separator which is platform dependent. Windows uses "\" and Unix uses "/".
For example, to execute following with command prompt or BATCH file we can use this: Same thing to do with Python, we can do this:or
When you are running a python script on windows in subprocess you should use python in front of the script name.  Try:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.run
