Natural Text
I'm working a lot with ranges and have hit a wall on this one. I'm trying to turn a range in to the full list of numbers.what i want print string to result in is '1,2,3,4,5,6,10'. So bascially showing the full range.so the bulk of the question is how to turn 3-6 in to 3,4,5,6 using pythonany help would be much appreciated!
I think this would output what you need, it's a bit long winded but demonstrates the process.
You could use a regex pattern to find every range and a function to replace a range by a list of numbers:
one-liner which creates a range if - is detected (with boundary fixing) else just converts to integer:result (as a list of integers):note that it handles negative numbers as well (y.find("-")>0 ensures that - is not at start when detecting range), but not negative ranges (would have to choose another separator for this like :)
You can use the following function:And then you'll get:
Why don't you build a simple parser for that construct? I guess you're planning to process some kind of input from external data sources anyway as otherwise your question wouldn't make much sense: It's more easy to resolve a few specifications like that manually instead of writing special code to handle it.This approach would follow these steps:prepare an empty list for outputsplit the input string at ","for each item check if a "-" is presentif no => convert the item to an int and put it into the output listif yes =>split the string at "-"add a range of int values to the output listreturn the output listI guess this is the easiest way. Should be very simple to code that yourself using the split method provided at strings to split strings and the int(...) function to convert strings to int.Building such a simple parser will have a big advantage anyway: You can at the same time verify that the input you receive is perfectly valid. You even can check if the values provided are in increasing order. That seems to be a basic condition if I look at the example(s) you provided.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html
