Natural Text
EDIT2: I have removed the rest of the code so I don't spoil the solution. Thank you for your help. EDIT: I included my whole code. I didn't want to include it because I didn't want to spoil the solution for anyone trying this problem themselves. But I want help so here it is. I manually am accomplishing this by doing the following but I want this to work on a bigger scale and I refuse to manually copy and paste it that many times. That's not the point of writing code. I know that if you are repeating code you are doing it wrong. I can't figure out how to get this to work. I tried x[i] * y[i] but that just takes the first value from each and multiplies them. I tried putting another for loop inside but that didn't work either (same result). I tried a while loop with j = 0 and having it increase j by 1 each time but that didn't work either (same result). Please help me understand how I can do this. I know it's possible. I have been practicing in python for a week so please give me a break, I know this is a stupid question. 
There's no need to do You can make a list from a  object like this:However, there's no need to make those  and  lists. You can create a list of the products by iterating directly over the ranges. For example:To make a list just containing the palindromes:You can then do  to find the highest palindrome that is the product of two two-digit numbers.Here's a more compact way, using a generator expression, so it doesn't need to build a list:
You need to use nested loopThis is called the nested loop. Variable i is iterating for length of y minus 1 and variable j is iterating for length of x minus 1.
Your for loop is equivalent to this:
You can use Kaushal Kumar Singh's solution, or here are two other solutions. However, in programming there is no universal solution, a lot of solutions can co-exist.Code 1:Code 2:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#generator-expressions
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#filter
