Natural Text
From the python.org tutorialSlice indices have useful defaults; an omitted first index defaults to zero, an omitted second index defaults to the size of the string being sliced.As the tutorial says  should equals to but  is empty as follows:The question is not a duplicate of explain-slice-notation. That question is about the general use of slicing in python.
I think the docs are perhaps a little misleading on this, but the optional arguments of slicing if omitted are the same as using :You can see that these 2 above slices are identical from the CPython bytecode:For a negative , the substituted values for  are  for the  and  for the :This may help you visualize it:
You are confused with the behavior of the stepping. To get the same result, what you can do is:Indeed, stepping wants to 'circle' around backwards in your case, but you are limiting it's movement by calling .
All it does is slice. You pick. start stop and step so basically you're saying it should start at the beginning until the beginning but going backwards (-1).If you do it with -2 it will skip letters:When doing  your'e starting at the first letter and going back directly to 5 and thus it will stop. only if you try  will it correctly be able to go to the beginning by doing steps of negative 1.Edit to answer commentsAs pointed out the documentation saysan omitted second index defaults to the size of the string being  sliced. Lets assume we have  with . When you slice the string and omit, leave out, the second number it defaults to the length of the string being sliced, in this case - 5.i.e , . The sentence refers to the length of the original object and not the newly sliced object.Also, this answer is great
 does not make much sense, since when you use this notation the indices mean: . When you use a negative step your end value needs to be at an "earlier" position than your start value.
You'll notice that the third slice argument, the , is not presented in the part of the tutorial you quoted. That particular snippet assumes a positive step.When you add in the possibility of a negative step, the behavior is actually pretty intuitive. An empty  parameter refers to whichever end of the sequence one would start at to step through the whole sequence in the direction indicated by the  value. In other words it refers to the lowest index (to count up) if you have a positive step, and the highest index (to count down) if you have a negative step. Likewise, an empty  parameter refers to whichever end of the sequence one would end up at after stepping through in the appropriate direction.
The docs simply aren't correct about the default values as you've pointed out. However, they're consistent other than that minor error. You can view the docs I am referring to here: https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#common-sequence-operationsNote that the behavior is definitionaly correct according to the docs:The slice of s from i to j with step k is defined as the sequence of  items with index x = i + n*k such that 0 <= n < (j-i)/k. In other  words, the indices are i, i+k, i+2*k, i+3*k and so on, stopping when j  is reached (but never including j).When you do:we have that , , and . So we are grabbing items at index  for  starting at  and going up to . However, observe that . There are no  such that , so you get the empty string:Do  when in doubt (it's almost always what we want)It's almost always the case that when you pass a negative step to something like , what you want to happen is for the sub selection to happen first, and then just go backwards by  (i.e. we usually want .Futhermore, to add to the confusion, it happens to be the case that if . For example:Unfortunately, this doesn't hold when , even though it's tempting to think that it should.After being burned by this a couple times, I realized it's just safer to always do the step clause after you perform the  slice. So I almost always start with , at least when prototyping or creating a new module where correctness/readability is the primiary concern. This is less performant than doing a single slice, but if performance is an issue, then you can do the less readable:HTH.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#slice
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#common-sequence-operations
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#common-sequence-operations
