Natural Text
I can't figure out why my below code won't assign a new value to the nth row inside the for loop. As far as I know, the way I index the b matrix should be correct but it seems like the count variable won't update for each iteration.The print statements serve only as a way of checking what is going on.I assume that it's pretty simple, so I would highly appreciate if one could point out were I'm wrong.I use the following command to execute the code within the terminal of Ubuntu.which is why there as such aren't specified any data/text file.In advance, thank you!
 is basically a file object, so it's just my opinion not to do something like  (it may technically work, but it's bad form. plus, you have other issues, all ahead)i would prefer to call  or  methods on sys.stdin to read the contentsget familiar with the basics of stdin here: How do you read from stdin in Python?a loop that would work for you should look like this:but be careful, if you iterate over the entire stdin at the start of your program (when you did ) you can't simply start iterating againa more simple approach for you will be to read all the lines as mentioned above, but if you need the length of lines you can simply do this first:to summarize, the start of your program should be this:EDIT: i wouldnt use numpy at all for such a simple problem with multiple types to store (float and string)
The core problem seems to be that you're reading from  twice. Once in the argument to , which will read the entire input, then again in the for loop. Because files have a current position, the usual result is that the for loop gets nothing to process. stdin is also likely to be a stream, so cannot be rewound. You must load the data only once. A second question is if you can load the data using a higher abstraction level. It looks like you're reading a CSV, for which  might be useful, but it's collected in a numpy array, which makes  even more appealing. It even has a  field to read specific columns. The  variable can also be handled a little more easily, using . This will increment it along with the reading of lines. I think a decent starting point is something like:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html#csv.reader
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#methods-of-file-objects
