Natural Text
I downloaded and installed python 3.6.1 and I checked. It is properly installed and all. I even installed it again using Homebrew just in case.But when I ran 'python -V' or 'python --version', it gives 'python 2.7.10'.I know that 2.7.10 it comes preinstalled with MacOs (I am on a Mac running the latest version of Sierra) but how do I change it to run 3.6.1 instead.The real problem is that when I code, there are a bunch of Turtle (and more) functions and modules missing (because they were only added in python 3). I need these functions in my program to make it work well.If, instead of running 'python -V', I do 'python3 -V', it gives 'python 3.6.1'.But it isn't the right version when I code. Also, in case this is useful, I program with Visual studio code.Here is my ENTIRE program:And here is the error message when I run the code like this:
Since you say you are programming with an IDE, I would assume it has settings for the default Python interpreter to use.  And it overrides the environmental variables to make sure the interpreter is the one the IDE has configured to be the default.  Try changing your MSVS settings. 
Sounds like you have two Python versions installed in parallel.Just throw shebang at the top of your desired Python3 scripts.eg: For more information, here are the PyDocs
Check the result of the command . On my computer I haveIn my specific case, I installed python using . If I check the executable I see:And the python3 executable is:What you can do is make the  a new link to the python version you want to use using the command .Now the executable is correct:If I execute the version:Fix your bugTo make your code works change the line:To
But what I want to work the most is the 'screen.ontimer(shipmovement,  1000)'This really should be asked as a separate SO quesion but here's a MCVE for moving your ship:The key point to take note of is that  is a one-shot, you have to keep doing them -- it doesn't repeat automatically.  Some general guidelines:Don't use a single turtle () for everything.  Allocateseparate turtles.  If the ship is it's own turtle, you don't have tokeep (re)setting it's color, etc.  Use separate turtles for writingonto the screen -- if a turtle is allocated for each piece ofstationary, updating text, then you can simply  to erase thelast text before writing the new one.It's easier to move a turtle then to erase and redraw using a turtle.Create a custom shaped turtle to be your ship, then just move thatturtle, no erasing and repositioning necessary.I think you're misunderstanding the difference between and .  One is forsetting the size of window the user sees, the other defineshow large a canvas backs that window, into which you can scroll. Reread the documentation.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html#shebang-lines
