Natural Text
This should be an easy one for experienced coders out there... I am writing a program that outputs anagrams (from a given list) from a jumbled input. I believe my code includes all the necessary functions to produce the desired result, but I cannot figure out how to make the program run the respective functions in order. A sample output is:This is my output, currently:How do I reformat my code to output all anagrams listed in a text file given a user input?Here is my code:Please excuse some of the minor coding errors I might have in this code. 
Your most major problem here is that you have not got the flow right in terms of assigning your results to variables.  As recommended in comments - you might want to take a look at the python function definition tutorial section.  I've put some particular things you need to address below.Problem 1In particular - you need to consider the  statement.  If your function definition does not have a  statement, then assigning a variable to its result is meaningless.  Try an example:You might be expecting  - in fact you'll see , because the function doesn't return anything.  If you alter it, so that it reads:you'll now get output .  Your functions  and  suffer from this.Problem 2You can only use the values of variables in a code block if they have already been assigned.For example - consider the following very simple programThis will fail in a similar way to your program, because  is not a variable that has been defined in your program.  If you change it to:it will output the message returned.  This problem affects your sequence in , beginning with trying to send  to the  function when you haven't assigned any value to  within the  function.  Note I can see you have assigned a value to  in the  function.  You might be expecting that assignment to be available to the  function.  It will not.  This is to do with something called variable scoping.  In general in Python, variables are local, or available only in the block of code where they are defined and assigned.  The other type of variable is a global variable - where variables are available to code program wide.  You can explicitly make an assigment from within a function , but I can say with some certainty that you don't need to do that for this assignment and would recommend you didn't.  Scoping is discussed very briefly in the Python docs here.  Scoping is a pretty fundamental programming concept and worth spending some time getting your head around. Play around with some simple examples - use the same variable names inside and outside functions, see what you get etc.General commentWhen stuff goes wrong, to help with debugging, simplify your cases and understand where they're going wrong.  You can see I've demonstrated the main problems you have with very simple cases.  You can do the same.  The logic in your functions may or may not work exactly as you like, but until you get these fundamentals sorted, it will be impossible to debug more complicated cases.Edit - recommendationJust took another look over your code and I would also recommend splitting up functions for #1 and #2 - i.e. one function to lower case your dictionary and another to get the lower case user input.  It's not essential, but it will make your code easier to understand and your life easier.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functions
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/simple_stmts.html#the-return-statement
https://docs.python.org/3/faq/programming.html#what-are-the-rules-for-local-and-global-variables-in-python
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functions
