Natural Text
First of all i would like to apologize since i am a beginner to Python. Anyway I have a Python Program where I can create text files with the general form:And what I'm trying to do is to allow the program to be able to retrieve the recipe and have the ingredients recalculated for a different number of people.  The program should output the the recipe name, the new number of people and the revised quantities for the new number of people. I am able to retrieve the recipe and output the recipe however i am not sure how to have the ingredients recaculated for a different number of people. This is part of my code:
I had to edit it a couple times because I use Python 2.7.5, but this should work:
I would recommend splitting your effort into multiple steps, and working on each step (doing research, trying to write the code, asking specific questions) in succession. 1) Look up python's file I/O. 1.a) Try to recreate the examples you find to make sure you understand what each piece of the code does. 1.b) Write your own script that accomplishes just this piece of your desired program, i.e. opens an exist recipe text file or creates a new one.2) Really use you're own functions in Python particularly with passing your own arguments. What you're trying to make is a perfect example of good "modular programming", were you would right a function that reads an input file, another that writes an output file, another that prompts users for they number they'd like to multiple, and so on. 3) Add a  block for user input. If a user enters a non-numeric value, this will allow you to catch that and prompt the user again for a corrected value. Something like:Or if you want to allow decimals, you could use  instead of . 4) [Semi-Advanced] Basic regular expressions (aka "regex") will be very helpful in building out what you're making. It sounds like your input files will have a strict, predictable format, so regex probably isn't necessary. But if you're looking to accept non-standard recipe input files, regex would be a great tool. While it can be a bit hard or confusing skill to learn, but there are a lot of good tutorials and guides. A few I bookmarked in the past are Python Course, Google Developers, and Dive Into Python. And a fantastic tool I strongly recommend while learning to build your own regular expression patterns is RegExr (or one of many similar, like PythonRegex), which show you what parts of your pattern are working or not working and why. Here's an outline to help get you started:Starting out can be tough, but it's very worth it in the end! Good luck!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#reading-and-writing-files
