Natural Text
I'm not sure how the  statement is interpreted when it is inside a  loop with an  clause.If the condition is true, the  will exit from a  loop and  part will not be executed. And if the condition is False then  part will be executed. But, what about  statement? I tested it seems that the after the  statement is reached, the  part will be executed. Is this true?? Here is a code example:If I remove "spam" from the list, now the condition is always  and never found but still the  part is executed:
Your  part will be executed in both cases.  part executed when loop terminate when condition didn't found.Which is what is happening in your code. But it will also work same without  statement.now what about break statement's else part, Break statement's else part will be executed only if:If the loop completes normally without any break.If the loop doesn't encounter a break.
With a  loop in Python, the  block is executed when the loop finishes normally, i.e. there is no  statement. A  does not affect it either way.If the for loop ends because of a  statement, then  block will not execute. If the loop exits normally (no ), then the  block will be executed.From the docs:When used with a loop, the else clause has more in common with the else clause of a try statement than it does that of if statements: a try statement’s else clause runs when no exception occurs, and a loop’s else clause runs when no break occurs.I always remember it because of how Raymond Hettinger describes it. He said it should have been called  instead of . (That's also a good video that explains the usefulness of the for-else construct)Example:When you run the above code, since  is not in the list, the loop will not  and the  clause will print. If you add  to the list and run it again, it will  and the  will not print. In most other languages, you would have to add some sentinel boolean like  and make it  if you find a , then only print the statement after the loop if  is . 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#break-and-continue-statements-and-else-clauses-on-loops
