Natural Text
I'm at the very beginning of learning Python 3. Getting to know the language basics. There is a method to the list data type:and in the tutorial it is said to be equivalent to this expression:Can someone please explain this expression? I can't grasp the len(a): part. It's a slice right? From the last item to the last? Can't make sense of it.I'm aware this is very newbie, sorry. I'm determined to learn Python for Blender scripting and the Game Engine, and want to understand well all the constructs.
Think back to how slices work: .If you do not supply one of them, then you get all the list from  or all the way to .What that means is if I ask for , I will get the list from the index  all the way to the end of the list and  is an index right after the last element of the array... so  is basically an empty array positioned right after the last element of the array.Say you have , and you do , what you're telling Python is that right after  and right before , there should be .Thus  will become  and after that step  will indeed be equal to  just as you declared.Edit: as chepner commented, any index greater than or equal to  will work just as well. For instance,  and  will also result in  becoming .
One could generally state that  is similar to , and that is what is stated in the docs, but, that is a special case that holds true only when the right hand side has a single element. In the more general case it is safer to state that it is equivalent to  for the following reasons:Append takes an object and appends that to the end; with slice assignment you extend a list with the given iterable on the right hand side:is equivalent to:The same argument to  would cause  to be appended as  an object at the end of . In this scenario  is simply used in order for the extending of the list to be performed at the end of .Some examples to illustrate their difference:As you note,  doesn't actually append each value in the iterable, it appends the iterable itself.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
