Natural Text
A Python listmay be seen as an efficient representation of a mapping from [0, 1, ..., len(f) - 1] to the set of its elements. By "efficient" I mean that f[i] returns the element associated with i in O(1) time.The inverse mapping may be defined as follows:This works, but Inverse(f)[x] takes O(n) time on average.Alternatively, one may use a dict:This has O(1) average time complexity, but it requires the objects in the list to be hashable.Is there a way to define an inverse mapping that provides equality-based lookups, in O(1) average time, with unhashable objects?Edit: sample input and expected output:
You can create an associated dictionary mapping the object ID's back to the list index.The obvious disadvantage is that you will have to search the index for the identity object, not for on eobject that is merely equal.On the upside, by creating a custom MutableSequence class using collections.abc, you can, with minimal code, write a class that keeps your data both as a sequence and as the reverse dictionary.  And voilá: just use this object in place of your list, and the public attribute "reverse" to get the index of identity objects. Perceive you can augment the "intelligence" of the "MD" class by trying to use different strategies, like to use the objects themselves, if they are hashable, and only resort to id, or other custom key based on other object attributes, when needed. That way you could mitigate the need for the search to be for the same object. So, for ordinary operations on the list, this class maintain the reverted dictionary synchronized. There is no support for slice indexing, though.For more information, check the docs at https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.abc.html
Unfortunately you're stuck with an algorithm limitation here. Fast lookup structures, like hash tables or binary trees, are efficient because they put objects in particular buckets or order them based on their values. This requires them to be hashable or comparable consistently for the entire time you are storing them in this structure, otherwise a lookup is very likely to fail.If the objects you need are mutable (usually the reason they are not hashable) then any time an object you are tracking changes you need to update the data structure. The safest way to do this is to create immutable objects. If you need to change an object, then create a new one, remove the old one from the dictionary, and insert the new object as a key with the same value.The operations here are still O(1) with respect to the size of the dictionary, you just need to consider whether the cost of copying objects on every change is worth it.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.abc.html
