Natural Text
What is the difference between a list & a stack in python? I have read its explanation in the python documentation but there both the things seems to be same?
A stack is a data structure concept. The documentation uses a Python  object to implement one. That's why that section of the tutorial is named Using Lists as Stacks.Stacks are just things you add stuff to, and when you take stuff away from a stack again, you do so in reverse order, first in, last out style. Like a stack of books or hats or... beer crates:See the Wikipedia explanation.Lists on the other hand are far more versatile, you can add and remove elements anywhere in the list. You wouldn't try that with a stack of beer crates with someone on top!You could implement a stack with a custom class:Hardly a list in sight (somewhat artificially), but it is definitely a stack:The Python standard library doesn't come with a specific stack datatype; a  object does just fine. Just limit any use to  and  (the latter with no arguments) to treat a list as a stack.
A "stack" is a specific application of , with operations limited to appending (pushing) to and popping (pulling) from the end.
In python lists can also be used as stacks. Think of a list like a combination between your normal lists and a stack.This is also described here The list methods make it very easy to use a list as a stack, where the  last element added is the first element retrieved (“last-in,  first-out”). To add an item to the top of the stack, use append(). To  retrieve an item from the top of the stack, use pop() without an  explicit indexIn fact you are using their exact example. Are you confused by the fact that it's a "combined data structure" ?EDIT: as another user mentioned, it is a concept that is implemented using lists.
Stack works in the concept of Last in First out.We can perform push and pop operations in the stackBut compare to stack list is easy to do all operations like add,insert,delete,concat etc...Stack is the application of stack and it's like data structures we use it more.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
