Natural Text
This question is an exact duplicate of:Python: ' ' is not defined                    1 answer                Okay, so I want the end result of my program to look like this...Now, I don't need those exact numbers because this will be putting a robot in a simulation, so the results should vary. Here is my code:And, I am getting this error when I run my code:So, I am confused as to why my return statements are not working, and why I am not getting the list that I want. Please help.
, , and  are not defined in the scope of  which is why you are getting that error.Update your  function to take in those arguments:Later, when you call , pass these variables in:Now the problem here is that, you still don't have those 3 variables defined within the scope of main, they're only defined inside . How do you get them out of ? Just store the return values of  in variables like so:You can also directly send the output of  to  without the need for temporary variables: 
You defined leftLightSeries and centerLightSeries in the function scan(). Since they are not defined in the outer scope (which would be the global scope in this case), the function printResults cannot access them.The Python documentation describes it in the section 4.2.2. Resolution of namesA scope defines the visibility of a name within a block. If a local  variable is defined in a block, its scope includes that block. If the  definition occurs in a function block, the scope extends to any blocks  contained within the defining one, unless a contained block introduces  a different binding for the name.When a name is used in a code block, it is resolved using the nearest  enclosing scope. The set of all such scopes visible to a code block is  called the block’s environment.When a name is not found at all, a NameError exception is raised. If  the current scope is a function scope, and the name refers to a local  variable that has not yet been bound to a value at the point where the  name is used, an UnboundLocalError exception is raised.  UnboundLocalError is a subclass of NameError.
The issue you are having is a scoping issue. is defined within the scope of the function , which means it can only be accessed from within that function. So it is not available within the scope of the function .Another issue with your code is that you have multiple  statements that will never be reached:This block of code will return  and then never reach the next two  statements. One option you could consider if wanting to return multiple values would be to return a tuple:Then in  you could grab your series like so:Also note that  is what you want instead of range(1,6). Arrays start at index 0 and  gives you the range from the first argument up to but not including the second argument.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/executionmodel.html#resolution-of-names
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/executionmodel.html#resolution-of-names
