Natural Text
Code:Error:I'm attempting to create multiple tkinter buttons with a loop. I can create the buttons fine but i can't seem to create callbacks for them. When ever i try, it tells me that the variables that i use for the buttons are not defined. I tried adding "exec("global " + alphabet[i])" above where i defined the buttons but that didn't change anything.
Using  is almost always the wrong way to do it, no matter what "it" is.And creating variables dynamically is almost always the wrong thing to do.And your problems getting this to work are a perfect illustration of why.Just create a  mapping names to buttons:If you really want to dump the  into  (or, similarly,  or  or …), that's trivial. But you don't. The only place you need to use the variable is in your  function. So:But notice that this does the wrong thing. —whether you run it directly, or via —is going to call  now, destroying the button before you even create it, and returning , which you'll then set as the . You need  or  to fix this.Plus, you can't write code to pass the button variable itself to , either now or later, because the variable doesn't exist yet. You have to pass the letter, as a string, as I did above.But really, if you think about it, you don't need these button variables at all—whether in a  or otherwise. You just need a way to bind each button as its own callback's target, right? There are a number of ways to do this, but the obvious one is a class, either inheriting or delegating to  (or, in this case, neither, since you don't need to use it as a button, or even remember it, after creation).While we're at it, let's remove some extraneous parens and such that just make things harder to read and fix the problem that  seems to belong in two different groups…It might be even clearer with , because it's the letters rather than the numbers that you're going to see while debugging it.
The string in your first call to  evaluates to:You are therefore referencing  (the name) before having defined it. I'm guessing you forgot the single quotes around the second :Note this would call , i.e. , which will throw an  since strings have no  method. What is  supposed to achieve?


Answer URL
