Natural Text
I am having trouble coding the user input variable DOB as a while loop and showing an error if the user does not input dob as dd/mm/yyyyAny suggestions?
There are a lot of errors here. So bear with me if I seem to be overwhelmingly negative.is expecting the input string to be in , but the  call actually assigns it to . So you will get . And you have specified the date format with doubled slashes, , as if the slashes needed to be escaped, but they don't, so you are asking the user to enter  which no user is likely to guess, especially as your error prompt does not say this.Next, you have . This doesn't do what you seem to think it does. From the tutorial:The try … except statement has an optional else clause, which, when present, must follow all except clauses. It is useful for code  that must be executed if the try clause does not raise an exception.In other words, even if the user does succeed in entering a "valid" date, double slashes and all, your code issues the message . After that, if the user makes an error and presses  to try again, your exception handler calls , which doesn't exist, and so the program will fail. And if the user presses  your exception handler attempts to call , but there is no , so that will also get a . And if even with , it will still not do what you want, because you omitted the parens. Without them, you are naming the function, not calling it.And lastly, you have a  loop but you never exit from it, even if the user does enter a valid date.With all of these things fixed up, the code looks like this:
You are saving the input as variable  but using variable  while testing against the given format inside :So, you can do:Also, make the datetime format specifier as , without the redundant s in between.Another thing is, you have not imported  but used  at the end. So you need to: Use exit status you want in the function call e.g.  (the default is  BTW when no integer is given) for exit status  (means success, anything else indicates failure: typically between 1-255). Just doing  refers to the function object, does not call itAs a side note, as your  is not a constant, you should make it snake_case e.g.:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html
