Natural Text
I have this string:but actually I have a lot of string like this:where a,b and c are double. And I would like to extract a,b and c of this string. How can I do this using Python? 
Outputs is your test strings and what not, pattern is the regex pattern, we are looking for floats, and once we find them using findall() we assign them back to a,b,c Note this method works only if your string is in format of what you've given. else you can play with the pattern to match what you want. Edit like most people stated in the comments if you need to include a + in front of your positive numbers you can use this pattern r'[-+]?\d+\.\d*'
Using the reqular expression We can dowill print [('-1007.88670550662', '67293.8347365694', '-0.416543501823503')]
If your formats are consistent, and you don't want to deep dive into regex (check out regex101 for this, btw) you could just split your way through it.Here's a start:
The re module can certainly be made to work for this, although as some of the comments on the other answers have pointed out, the corner cases can be interesting -- decimal points, plus and minus signs, etc.  It could be even more interesting; e.g. can one of your numbers be imaginary?Anyway, if your string is always a valid Python expression, you can use Python's built-in tools to process it.  Here is a good generic explanation about the ast module's NodeVisitor class.  To use it for your example is quite simple:This will return a list with all the numbers in your expression:The visit_UnaryOp method is only required for Python 3.x.
You can use something like:Demo
While I prefer MooingRawr's answer as it is simple, I would extend it a bit to cover more situations.A floating point number can be converted to string with surprising variety of formats:Exponential format (eg. 2.0e+07)Without leading digit (eg. .5, which is equal to 0.5)Without trailing digit (eg. 5., which is equal to 5)Positive numbers with plus sign (eg. +5, which is equal to 5)Numbers without decimal part (integers) (eg. 0 or 5)ScriptOutput:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.findall
