Natural Text
I am trying to make a program where my students will enter their ID numbers so I can (later in the code) automate sending attendance, and record who has handed in homework and who hasn't so emails can be sent to parents. I have everything else made, but I cannot get the inputting of student ID's working. What I am trying to do:1)make sure that their input is 7 characters long2)check their ID exists in 'fakeID' 2a)have the students confirm their name from 'classNames' with a y/n. 2b) append their name into inputIDList 3) if the input is == to 9999990 exit the loop. What it is doing:1) asking for input 2) moving on in the code and not looping3) not appending inputIDListI think I am making this too complicated for my current skill level.edit:The loop is not checking to see if the inputed ID is in my fakeID list. Also, it isnt looping for, so once the input is entered it continues on with the next set of code. edit2:updated code that works. :D
Here is something to get you started:
If I understood your problem correctly then I suppose that you are trying to save the ID numbers of the students in inputIdList and then check whether a particular ID is in inputIdList or not. In the last if condition you are trying to compare a List type object with a String type object which will definitely throw an TypeError. Instead define the following function and call it in the if condition.list.index() method tries to find the element in the list and returns the  index number of the element. And then call this function in your if condition.Furthermore there is no need to assign inputIdList = [""] if you have already intialized it to inputIdList = []. If the problem persists please send the output in the thread.
as Abarnert said you need to restructure your method. but I think I found where you were stuck.after you have checked for the length of input number, you should check whether that number matches any fakeID,and get the corresponding class name.so your first loop should be like thisrather thansince inputIDList is empty your program will not go inside the loop. And inside the changed loop you should be checkingThis is the limit of what I could understand of your desired operation. But if you need further help just ask.cheers.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
