Natural Text
I am new to creating user-defined functions in python and I was wondering what is going wrong here, I am basically trying to get the user to input a number which is the amount of numbers they wish to add together. The program will then ask them to enter a number for the amount of times the previously entered number states. For instance, if the user entered 3, the program would ask them to enter three different numbers. Then program will then utilise the function I created to add those numbers together.I go to input 2 for the amount numbers I wish to add together, and I then choose the numbers 2 and 1 to add together. Usually this would output 3 but it somehow outputs the number 2 and I have no idea why.If anyone can help it would be greatly appreciated as I am completely stuck.
(1) scrap add_multi, (2) create a list to store multiple numbers, (3) and return a value to print.
If you want to add multiple numbers that a user inputs, you need to store more than one number, so you need a list. Here's how to fix your input:Now your task is to sum all numbers in . This can be done in many ways; read the docs on  statement, for instance.
The logic is off a bit. you are trying to store two numbers into one variable as numbers. Try storing into an array an using arrays to calc the rest. like this:
The way your code is written currently, it can't accept more than one number as an input to add because of these lines:When you input 1 after inputting 0, 1 overwrites the previous 'x' value and then 'add_multi' is called with 1 as the input.This is the reason why you are getting two as an output as well. The issue occurs in the following lines:Since x = 1 and y = 2, what happens is:To solve the issues, add the inputs to an array like the other user mentioned above and then change your function to be the following.
While the other responses here are much more efficient, I tried to keep things simple for you and also maintain your user defined function.Initialize your running total  at the beginning and for each iteration of , call add_multi to add the input x to the running total .  Then at the end, print the total .It's very rudimentary and could be optimized once you get a better handle on the language.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#for-statements
