Natural Text
Hey guys so I have done a lot of research into  but still don't get it. From what I currently understand it must be used for all instances of a class to pass object args?I understand the use of  but for whatever reason I can not seem to wrap my head around the point of . Why do we have to use it. When is it useful and what purpose does it serve other than the instantiation of instances of a class?How is it a constructor if the said object has already been made before the call to ?Generally speaking I just have no idea on the why, how or when behind  other than it is used for instantiation of instances of a class, it can have multiple args which seem to be specific to the instance of the class. It must be called for each instance?
I am not an expert on this but AFAIK the  method is a built-in method of every class or metaclass, that is called exactly in the class instantiation. Why or what for would you use the  method?Well, you can use it for many things, but the main purpose is to pass arguments into the class instance when it is instantiated. Actually when you do  these get passed along to , where you might either make use of them or not.For example:If you take some time to read the code, you will see how there are necessary tasks that need to be run in the  method, such as variable assignment, doing checks or running other processes.Also when you inherit from another class the behaviour gets a bit more complicated. As you see I have to call the mother class with the  call in order to run the rest of the tasks that were being done in it. in useSo let's play around with this piece of code I have just created.You could create your vehicle just like this:However that would raise an error, since the  method is requiring to pass one compulsory argument, . All the rest are optional fields, but that is obligatory for the instantiation to happen. Therefore you could try again with this:You can access the value you have just passed doing:You can also pass the rest of the elements, but they are not obligatory:Bear in mind that we could also assign them after the instantiation to our first vehicle:So now we have two different vehicles, but one can move and the other can't. We can see this if we run:Whereas  won't raise the error. If you change the property of the first vehicle afterwards it will work, regardless of the value you passed to  initially.It works similar for our Car class. If we do :Even if we do :All these arguments are defined in the  section, and the  tag is required because it inherits form the parent class.Look at how the values work correctly when we try to move our car:
It gets called when that type of object gets created, so you can do whatever class-specific initialization is needed, and don't have to remember to make a separate initialization call.  That is what it is used for; that is what purpose it serves.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html#basic-customization
