Natural Text
I have my own exception classes inheriting from Exception class. I could check if type is in {..my exceptions list..}, but that seems problematic in my case. Is there any other way of checking if the exception is user-defined or Python's built-in exception. Thank you!EDIT: The problem is that others can write their own exceptions or rename existing exceptions in their files, which I can't possibly keep track of. I  need to log built-in exceptions, and ignore exceptions thrown because of user's fault. I need the checking in except block
You could create your own custom exception class that inherits from Exception, and have your current exception classes inherit from that one.So basically:That way, you can check if an exception is an instance of your MyExceptionClass.Then, you could do the following if you just want to know that thrown exception is user-defined:
I suspect that this question is due to the fact that your code has the following anti-pattern:You should not (usually) check the type of the exception, instead you should use except with the minimal subset of relevant exception types:Or, if each exception type requires a different handling:
A good design for this case is to define a base exception for your class. If someone wants to extend your module, make it crystal clear in your documentation that they have to use your exception type or extend it. Use the base class to create UserException. In the logging code, ignore UserException and log everything else.Document this behavior.Your approach probably won't work. You could start with this:which will return __builtin__ for predefined exceptions but not for those which are defined in the standard Python modules (*.py files in the library).Also, how do you plan to support exceptions defined by other modules which users of your code have installed with pip?
Although the reasons of this question are questionable, here's an alternative that:Doesn't work in Python terminalFilters out everything that's not built-in ([Python 3]: Built-in Exceptions)code.py:Output:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html
