Natural Text
I extracted and placed the PyPDF2 1.26.0 toolkit into my plugin directory. The hierarchy looks like this:In the beginning of the  file, I tried to import the PyPDF2 module using:Unfortunately, this results in an error:ImportError: No module named report.PyPDF2.PyPDF2But I can import it using :The issue is that  will be called multiple times, so each time  will be run. Would this cause any problems (i.e. memory issues or such) and why could I not import the module using ?
I extracted and placed the PyPDF2 1.26.0 toolkit into my plugin directoryI don't know what your "plugin directory" is, but that's not the way to install a python package. You want to use something like  instead, preferably with a .ImportError: No module named report.PyPDF2.PyPDF2I assume the first "PyPDF2" directory is the github root directory (cf https://github.com/mstamy2/PyPDF2). This directory is not a proper python package (it doesn't have an  file) but the project's directory. What you want is to only have the "second-level" PyPDF2 directory (which is the actual python package) in "report", and then import from it using . But once again, this is not the right way to install a python package, cf above.This will keep on appending to  over and over and over again (which might indeed end up causing memory issues by itself if your process runs for a few weeks or months, and depending on how often this function is called). IOW : don't do that. Properly install PyPDF2 as a dependancy instead (once again,  and  are your friends) or at least only install the "inner" PyPDF2 package as explained above.Note that the problem here is not with importing the same module over and over again (the very first import will cache the module) but with appending to  over and over again. The only issue with a "local" import is a very slight performance hit but you would probably never notice it unless this is a critical function called in a very tight loop).Also and while we're at it:1/ there's no need to pass  to  (it's alreay one), and 2/ hardcoding path separators is a very bad idea - you want  instead (well in this case you actually want none of this - leave  alone and properly install PyPDF2 instead)
Did you try:Anyway, imported modules are cached, so don't worry if you import one many times.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html#packages
