Natural Text
Looking for a way to explain something in Python to my students. If we start with number_list = range(100), we can use a for loop such as...If we have the same set up, but try to use a while loop, n comes back as undefined. How do I explain that?I guess it is more curious why it's OK in the for loop. I have been harping on them to initialize variables before using them, so why does n work just fine in the for loop?
The  in a  loop has a different connotation from the  used in a  loop.The  loop's syntax is defined in the grammar file for the language, particularly, this line:Which indicates that  is part of the syntax that defines a  loop.In the case of a  loop, which is a condition controlled loop. Anything that comes after  is treated as an expression that is to be evaluated and its truthiness tested.So, the  in  is an expression. In your case, it is . In this case, the  has a different connotation, it is an operator that is used to test inclusion.In your particular case,  is not defined at the time the expression is evaluated, and so a  is raised.I understand that this might be too complicated an answer to throw at students who have next to no experience with python.I would touch upon the fact that the  in  is an artefact of the syntax for a  loop, and the  in the  statement is an operator, and go from there.
Your current  loop is mostly gibberish. There's no  clause in a  statement (unless you're using the  operator to check if a value is a member of a container). Unlike a for loop, a  doesn't assign any value to a name on each iteration, it just checks the truth value of the expression you give it. That expression needs to be valid before the loop runs!You can write a  loop that is almost equivalent to your  loop:(The only way this is different from the for loop is that it creates the name  in the current namespace, while a  loop stores its iterator internally, without it being accessible to Python code.)Unfortunately, that loop is unlikely to be easier for your students to understand, since exceptions are probably more complicated than looping.If you only need to be able to iterate over a sequence (such as a  or a ), you can make a simpler  loop that uses an index to get each value from the sequence, rather than using the iterator protocol:
Pick one element from the number_list(in Pur case its a range) then save that value in a variable called 'n' , the value of the 'n' will change every time you run the for loop. the loop will exit when it encounters a 'StopIteration'. The variable 'n' will get created automatically with a value we fetch from the number_listHere you checking a variable's value present inside the list number_list. But it is not defined. while only runs when it get True value from the condition
Although the  type-statement-construct appears in many programming languages, its meaning in Python comes alive due to the ability to iterate over the contents of container objects. But here is a really simple 'for loop' constructed in Python using the 'while` statement.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/grammar.html#full-grammar-specification
