Natural Text
I'm trying to read a file and to save the text inside as a list containing strings,(each object in the list is a string which is one line in the text)i only managed to print out the text line by line , and not as a list.the text is a long list of biological stuff (random letter if you ask me (:)and-only printed the file (did seperated the lines..)where did i go wrong ?how do i set it into a list ?
The result of .readlines() is a list. Just print f:
Martijn Pieters already gives a simple and complete answer, but it's worth learning how to figure these things out yourself. It's usually faster, and it doesn't cost you a half-dozen downvotes.First, the fact that you can use for line in f: means that f is obviously some kind of list-ish object, in that it can be used in a for loop the same way a list can. Technically, this means it's an "iterable".Maybe this means it's already a list? If so, you're already done. If not, the list function takes any iterable and makes it into a list, so, you can just add f = list(f) and you're done.How do you find out which?Well, you can add print(type(f)) to your code and see what it prints out. If it says list, you're done; if it says anything else, you need to add the conversion line f = list(f).It's often easier to do this all interactively, rather than in a script:If you break this down into pieces, you can see the types of each piece separately:When you put this all together in one line, lines=open('C:/foo.txt').readlines(), the end result is the same as if you did it in three steps—lines is a list.But what if you can't figure something out by experimenting, because you don't know what to try?Well, the interactive interpreter has built-in help:It says right there that it returns a list.Or, you can look at the documentation. Trying to guess where readlines might be in 3.x is actually a bit complicated, because the type of thing open returns is not obvious… but you can just use the "quick search" on the left, and you'll find io.ioBase.readlines, which gives you the same answer:readlines(hint=-1)Read and return a list of lines from the stream. hint can be specified to control the number of lines read: no more lines will be read if the total size (in bytes/characters) of all lines so far exceeds hint.
As Martijn said, .readlines() converts a file into a list and cycles through them. However, this is what I think you are trying to do.
As Martijn said, the readlines() method returns a list as said in the python documentation .If what you need is to convert a string to a list use this: ast helperHope this is what you need!


Answer URL
