Natural Text
Say I have a class called Person, which will have only the person's name and gender.The gender should be randomly selected from Male and Female. To do that, I import the random.randint() function. The random gender is determined according to the random int.However, the result I get for different person from this class all have the same gender. My understanding is the randint is fixed once been generated. My question is how to make it different for each class instance.
The reason your never getting a different gender is because the gender attribute is a class variable. Once Python creates your class object Person, the value of gender is never computed again. You need to make the gender variable an instance attribute. That means the gender will be computed on a per instance basis, instead of per class definition. eg:Which outputsOn a side note, I think a much better choice for your task would be to use random.choice() to select a random gender from a list of genders(male or female):Notice in my example above, Person.genders is a class variable. This is on purpose. Because we only need to create a list of genders once, we can make the list a class level variable.
It seems you already guessed the reason correctly why the gender doesn't change. To solve this you could use a property for gender:
You should put random gender generation under __init__, so that it would be randomly generated for each class instance.Three times of results:
The gender variable is currently a class variable, that's why it stays the same for all the instance created. You will need to change them into a instance's attribute.Side note: random.randint(1, 3) will either return 1, 2 or 3 not just 1 or 2. It is not the same as indexing, in which the ending is ignored. Right now, there's a higher chance to be a Female since it could be 1 or 3, so random.randint(1,2) makes more sense. I mentioned this just in case it was not done on purpose. You can also use random.choice, which will choose a random selection from a list.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.choice
