Natural Text
I have looked through the information that the Python docs give, but I'm still a little confused. Could somebody post sample code that would write a new file then use pickle to dump a dictionary into it?
Try this:
The advantage of HIGHEST_PROTOCOL is that files get smaller. This makes unpickling sometimes much faster.Important notice: The maximum file size of pickle is about 2GB.Alternative wayAlternative FormatsCSV: Super simple format (read & write)JSON: Nice for writing human-readable data; VERY commonly used (read & write)YAML: YAML is a superset of JSON, but easier to read (read & write, comparison of JSON and YAML)pickle: A Python serialization format (read & write)MessagePack (Python package): More compact representation (read & write)HDF5 (Python package): Nice for matrices (read & write)XML: exists too *sigh* (read & write)For your application, the following might be important:Support by other programming languagesReading / writing performanceCompactness (file size)See also: Comparison of data serialization formatsIn case you are rather looking for a way to make configuration files, you might want to read my short article Configuration files in Python

In general, pickling a dict will fail unless you have only simple objects in it, like strings and integers.Even a really simple dict will often fail.  It just depends on the contents.However, if you use a better serializer like dill or cloudpickle, then most dictionaries can be pickled:Or if you want to save your dict to a file...The latter example is identical to any of the other good answers posted here (which aside from neglecting the picklability of the contents of the dict are good).
normally it's preferable to use the cPickle implementation
Simple way to dump a Python data (e.g. dictionary) to a pickle file.

If you just want to store the dict in a single file, use pickle like thatIf you want to save and restore multiple dictionaries in multiple files for caching and store more complex data, use anycache. It does all the other stuff you need around pickleAnycache stores the different myfunc results depending on the arguments to different files in cachedir and reloads them.See the documentation for any further details.
I've found pickling confusing (possibly because I'm thick).  I found that this works, though:Which you can then write to a text file.  I gave up trying to use pickle as I was getting errors telling me to write integers to a .dat file.  I apologise for not using pickle.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html#data-stream-format
