Natural Text
I am very new to python and programming in general. I am currently building a cocktail-mixer and also do the coding from ground up!My program fortunately works, since I am just adding simple commands after the other... but this is limiting me extremely in scaling my project!So here is my problem:I started of to test my electronics with just two cocktails.So in various functions in my program I have something like this (example)Now I wanted to add more Cocktails and more Pumps! But to accomplish this with my previous code, I would need to do A LOT of repetition and changing hundreds of single digits in all the functions... I want 12 Cocktails, 12 Pumps, so that already equals to 144 different segments of code... and then situations like I showed exist in my program a few times!So what I was thinking is something like this:You see what I am talking about? I want to refer to a variable by using a general variable in that variable-name!As I said, I am really new and therefore don´t know all the important terminology and everything! So please explain your answers to me like you would do it to a fourth-grader :D Thank you so much in advance!!!!
While it is possible to compute variable names in many languages (including Python), the common case of a number of analogous variables distinguished by a numeric label (an index) is handled by an array (in Python called list).  You can write PumpAmounts[0] and CocktailIngredients[3][5]—the latter conceptually is a variable with two indices and physically is a list of lists.The important bit is that an index is an expression—which can be a literal (a[1]), a variable (a[x]), or a (more complicated) computation (a[b[2*getHalfIndex(foo)]]).  These choices also let you treat all the elements of a list in a loop that changes the index, although the normal way to simply visit each element in Python doesn’t use indices:PS—I had this same question when I started programming: the first reference I had (for a different language) covered functions much more than syntax, so I didn’t know arrays existed.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
