Natural Text
I was wondering what the simplest way is to convert a string list like the following to a list:Even in case user puts spaces in between the commas, and spaces inside of the quotes. I need to handle that as well to:in Python.I know I can strip spaces with strip() and split() using the split operator and check for non alphabets. But the code was getting very kludgy. Is there a quick function that I'm not aware of?
ast.literal_eval:With ast.literal_eval, you can safely evaluate an expression node or a string containing a Python expression. The string or node provided may only consist of the following Python literal structures: strings, numbers, tuples, lists, dicts, booleans, and None.
The eval is dangerous - you shouldn't execute user input.If you have 2.6 or newer, use ast instead of eval:Once you have that, strip the strings.If you're on an older version of Python, you can get very close to what you want with a simple regular expression:This isn't as good as the ast solution, for example it doesn't correctly handle escaped quotes in strings. But it's simple, doesn't involve a dangerous eval, and might be good enough for your purpose if you're on an older Python without ast.
The json module is a better solution whenever there is a stringified list of dictionaries. The json.loads(your_data) function can be used to convert it to a list.Similarly 

Assuming that all your inputs are lists and that the double quotes in the input actually don't matter, this can be done with a simple regexp replace.  It is a bit perl-y but works like a charm.  Note also that the output is now a list of unicode strings, you didn't specify that you needed that, but it seems to make sense given unicode input.The junkers variable contains a compiled regexp (for speed) of all characters we don't want, using ] as a character required some backslash trickery.The re.sub replaces all these characters with nothing, and we split the resulting string at the commas.   Note that this also removes spaces from inside entries u'["oh no"]' ---> [u'ohno'].  If this is not what you wanted, the regexp needs to be souped up a bit.  
There is a quick solution:Unwanted whitespaces in the list elements may be removed in this way:
with numpy this is working a very simple waygives
If you know that your lists only contain quoted strings, this pyparsing example will give you your list of stripped strings (even preserving the original Unicode-ness).If your lists can have more datatypes, or even contain lists within lists, then you will need a more complete grammar - like this one on the pyparsing wiki, which will handle tuples, lists, ints, floats, and quoted strings.  Will work with Python versions back to 2.4.
Without importing anything;
To further complete @Ryan 's answer using json, one very convenient function to convert unicode is the one posted here: https://stackoverflow.com/a/13105359/7599285ex with double or single quotes:
I would like to provide a more intuitive patterning solution with regex. The below function takes as input a stringified list containing arbitrary strings. Stepwise explanation:You remove all whitespacing,bracketing and value_separators (provided they are not part of the values you want to extract, else make the regex more complex). Then you split the cleaned string on single or double quotes and take the non-empty values (or odd indexed values, whatever the preference). testsample: "['21',"foo" '6', '0', " A"]"
So, following all the answers I decided to time the most common methods:So in the end regex wins!
Let's assume your string is t_vector = [34, 54, 52, 23] and you want to convert this into a list. You can use the below 2 steps:t_vector contains the list.
you can save yourself the .strip() fcn by just slicing off the first and last characters from the string representation of the list (see third line below)


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/ast.html#ast.literal_eval
