Natural Text
To code a name like DeAnna you type:and In this code \a capitalizes a normally uncapitalized letter. What do you code to produce a name like "George von Trapp" where I want to uncapitalize a normally capitalized letter?
The \a does not capitalize a letter - it is the bell escape sequence.The str.title simply capitalizes the first letter of any group of letters. Since the bell is not a letter, it has the same meaning as a space. The following produces equivalent capitalization:Anyways, there are no capitalize/uncapitalize magic characters in python. Simply write the name properly. If you want both a proper and a lower-case version, create the later via str.lower:If you really want to go from "georg van trapp" (I'm just pretending the discussion about \a is over) to "Georg van Trapp" - welcome to having-to-decide-about-the-semantics-of-the-language-you-are-emulating.A simple approach is to upper-case every word, but fix some known ones.You can do that with a list-and-loop approach for less headache as well:If names are of the form First Second byword Last, you can capitalize everything but the second-to-last word:Any words that are shorter than four letters (warning, not feasible for some names!!!)
Why not just roll your own function for it?The point to the do_not_cap list is that allows you to further define parts you may not want to capitalize very easily.  For example, some names may have a "de" in it you may not want capitalized.This is what it looks like with an example:
What do you code to produce a name like "George von Trapp" where I  want to uncapitalize a normally capitalized letter?Letters are not auto-capitalized in Python. In your case, "de\aanna"(I think you should use "de anna" instead) is capitalised because you called title() on it. If I didn't misunderstand your question, what you want is simply to disable such "auto-capitalizing".Just don't call title():


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#string-and-bytes-literals
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#textseq
