Natural Text
I'm building a calculator and I'm in the part of pressing a button and display the value in the screen.  For that purpose, I created two different .py files (I want to use modules). Following up your request I will update the post with the simplest code possible to reproduce the issue. This is the calculator layout:and this is the module I'm usingI changed the name of the module from typing.py to screenvalue.py. Do you know what's happening? They both are in the same folderThank you very much in advance and my apologies if my English is not clear. 
Tkinter is a multilayered thing. Although you're using it from Python, it actually uses another language, Tcl, to manage the GUI.You get that error message because you're trying to create a Tkinter object before you start the Tcl interpreter, which happens when you do root=Tk(). So you need to reorganise your code so that doesn't get executed before you do root=Tk(). That character = StringVar() gets executed when you import screenvalue. You could just move the import statement after the root=Tk(), but it would be much better to change screenvalue so that it doesn't run code when you import it.FWIW, character.set("4") returns None, so there's not much point in having a function return that. Also, there's no point in a callback function returning a useful value, since you can't access the value returned by a callback.
You defined character = StringVar() outside of the scope of the type function that you created and imported in the second file.In the command from typing import type you import only type function with its scope and character is not defined in it, which causes the error that you got.If you move character = StringVar() into the function's scope it will solve your problem.def type():    character = StringVar()    return character.set("4")P.S it's strongly recommended not to use variable and function names that shadow python built in names, like 'type'.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html
