Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:How to make the python interpreter correctly handle non-ASCII characters in string operations?                    11 answers                I don't have that much experience programming in python, so my question might be very simple. I am working on a project for school, where we need to create an output from a user input (we want to emulate Eliza, but in a very simple way). Right now, the only thing the program does is look for keywords and respond accordingly. However, since I go to a french school and everything is in french, I need to use accents (e.g. é, è, à, á). And this is where the problem arrives: I cannot use accents in my predefined list of keywords (so it's not the keywords from the user input, but in my own program :/ )Here you have the entire program:(Here are the predefined keyword we use to know if there is a negation and if there are any demeaning adjectives in the user's sentence - we'll need to make it a lot bigger in order to make our bot more humanlike but it's just the principle)But here is the problem: in order to run our program, we had to remove all the accents. So words like guère, créé, mécanique, inventé, programmé become guere, cree, mecanique, invente, programme, and in some cases it changes the meaning of the word (e.g. programme becomes a noun instead of an adjective) (Here we simply look for negations, and adjectives - if you have another (more efficient) way of doing it, I would love to hear your suggestions! I might as well learn some new stuff :) )I had thought of maybe using unicode or utf-8, but I don't really know how to use it... Is that the right way to go? Or is there something else I can do?Thank you so much for your help :)
I'm using Python 2, and I think that lists might be a good way to store your keywords. I could type in the accents directly. For the é, I held down my Alt-key and then pressed these numbers from the numeric keypad: 130. (If you want to find other characters, please search for windows alt key symbols in your favorite search engine.)It might also be helpful to use the in operator to tell if a given word is within your list.Here's an example. Bonne chance!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/interpreter.html#source-code-encoding
