Natural Text
can someone please tell me how to get the day and month out of an integer that represents the day of the year? For example  should be 1st of February,  should be 11th of NovemberI wrote a code to return the values but is long and couldn't return two values, month and day at the same time.
You will need the year as well as the day of the year, because of leap years. That said:
You can just use datetime.strptime to parse this:Note that you need to supply a year in order to handle leap years correctly. In this example, I hardcoded the current year 2015 into it.If you wanted to go there by hand, without using the  module to handle this, you could also solve it like this:This does a similar thing to your code except with a much simpler logic: It keeps subtracting the days of a month as long as there are more days left than the current month contains. While doing that, it counts the months that are passed (using  here). So in the end, the remainder of days is the day of the month, and the number of months passed is the month.
The code below compares the speed of various day number to day & month algorithms. It also has a couple of functions useful for testing these algorithms. As well as Poke's & Cyphase's algorithms I've also included one that performs the calculation using arcane arithmetic. I won't go into details, but the arithmetic algorithm works by rotating the calendar to put February at the end of the year. The rotated calendar is a lot more regular than the normal one: it consists of repeating blocks of 5 months. In each block there are 153 days, with the month lengths alternating from long to short.typical outputAlthough the arithmetic algorithm is the fastest, I recommend using Cyphase's algorithm, unless you really need the speed (in which case, what are you doing using Python?). Cyphase's algorithm is much easier to read & understand; the arithmetic algorithm really needs to be heavily documented to explain how & why it works. Using "clever" algorithms like that goes against Kernighan's Maxim:Everyone knows that debugging is twice as hard as writing a program in  the first place. So if you're as clever as you can be when you write  it, how will you ever debug it?


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#datetime.datetime.strptime
