Natural Text
In pdb (or ipdb) we can execute statements and evaluate expressions with the  or  commands:p expression       Evaluate the expression in the current context and print its value.[!]statement     Execute the (one-line) statement in the context of the current stack frame. The exclamation point can be omitted unless the first word of the statement resembles a debugger command. To set a global variable, you can prefix the assignment command with a global command on the same lineSo, for example, I can type  while debugging in ipdb and the code will be executed in the current context and I will see the return value.Is there a way I can debug the execution of such "manually typed" expressions?Basically I would like to do is , but that just executes the  command and ignores the expression.EDIT: A trivial exampleTake this simple function:Which is bugged because of the  (it should check .) Let's assume I notice I get  half the number of times I was expecting. So I added a  before the call to the function to try and debug the code.So I'm in the ipdb console and I suddenly get the idea that maybe the problem is when I pass 0 as weekday_index.I can test my hypothesis directly in  ipdb:Ok, so I realize there's something wrong when .What I would like to do now is debug step by step the call to , so that I could see that I erranously enter the if block.Obviously I could exit ipdb, stop the script, change the code to always pass 0, relaunch the script and when I enter ipdb, debug the call with the ipdb  () command.But wouldn't it be easier if I could just do  much the same way I was able to do ?Is there a way do something like this?
I think you're looking for the  command which, for some reason, is not specified in the Debugger Commands. Just for future reference,  has a nice set of commands specified (which you can see by typing  in the interactive prompt). On to the  command:Which seems to do what you're after. Using your sample script from the terminal:After issuing two  commands in order for the function to get parsed (I believe this is how  works). You can issue a  command to recursively step in the function:Do note, I feel really sketchy about this form of meta-debugging but it seems to be what you're after. 
With regards to your example, you don't need to exit pdb and change the code.You can step into the function (with 's') and set weekday_index=0 inside.One solution to your original problem is to use the debugger's jump command as follows: jump before the function call using 'j #line-number' step in the function with 's' set the input params, and continue debugging.This worked when I tried it, but the debugger complained when I tried to do step 3 before step 2 for some reason.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html#debugger-commands
