Natural Text
I am new to programming and trying to get a head start on my class next semester. I am trying to show the total cost and then print it. Where am I going wrong? 
Problem 1Fix your indentation. Python uses indentation to define what block code is executed in (i.e. in an if statement, or after it). Here's what you should do:Select all (cmd / ctrl + a), and then keep pressing (cmd / ctrl + [) to de-indent. Do this until nothing is indented.On any line you want in an if / else statement, press the TAB key at the start of that line.Problem 2The input function (which gets user input) returns a string. You then try to compare this to an undefined variable yes. Replace the yes in your if statements with "yes" or 'yes' to ensure you are comparing two strings.Problem 3Remember to end all of your strings, with a closing quotation mark. You forgot one printing "Thank You" after the "Would you need a flight?" question.Replace: print('Thank you.) with print('Thank you.')Problem 4Second-to-last line, you define sum, which is never used. Then, you try to use the undefined travel function to add up your three variables. This line of code, in general, makes no sense. I am assuming that you meant this:Problem 5You can't concat floats / ints to strings.This should be the final line:Also, you forgot the concat operator (+) when appending the exclamation mark.Final Code:Here is the working version of your code:Recommendations:This works, but it could be better. Here are a few recommendations, which will help you not only with this project, but also with further ones:You can combine your print and input functions together, since input basically prints and then waits for input. To format it like you have now, simply include a newline character, \n. For example, instead ofyou could doThese lines could actually be simplified further. You don't need to define the variable rental, but instead you can just use its' output directly in the if statement, i.e. Learn to use try / catch statements to catch errors. When entering the amount for a travel expense, the user has to type a number. But what if they type a string instead? Your program would crash. Learn how to use try / catch statements to prevent this from happening (https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html)There's not really much apart from that. These were all just beginners mistakes, and soon you'll be writing good code that works well :DI was also impressed to see how you handled the "yes" / "no" user input by converting the answers to lower case and then checking them, which is something that a lot of people of your skill level neglect to do.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html
