Natural Text
Sorry if I'm being really ignorant, I've started learning to code Python recently (first language) and have been working on this task on codewars.com to create a single word pig latin programme. It is pretty messy, but it seems to work aside from the fact that the message:...comes up. I have looked online and I sort of gather it is likely some piece of code that is just out of line or i need a -1 somewhere or something. I was wondering if anyone could help me identify where this would be. It's not helped of course by the fact that I have made this difficult for myself with my inefficiency :P thanks
The only point where an index is implicated is when you call s[0]. Have you maybe tried running pig_latin with an empty string?Also, the formatting of your code makes no sense. I am assuming it was lost in the pasting? Everything below val = None should be at least one indent further right.
Now that the indentation is fixed, the code seems to run, but it does raise if we pass pig_latin an empty string. That's because ofThat will fail if s is the empty string because you can't do s[0] on an empty string. s[0] refers to the first char in the string, but an empty string doesn't have a first char. And of course pig_latin returns None if we pass it a string that contains non-alpha characters.So before you start doing the other tests, you should check that the string isn't empty, and return something appropriate if it is empty. The simplest way to do that isI suggest returning s or the empty string if you get passed an invalid string, rather than returning None. A function that returns different types depending on the value of the input is a bit messy to work with.There are various simplifications and improvements that can be made to your code. For example, there's no need to do elif char not in 'aeiou' after you've already done if char in 'aeiou', since if char in 'aeiou' is false then char not in 'aeiou' must be true. However, we can simply that whole section considerably.Here's your code with a few other improvements. Rather than using index to find the location of the first vowel we can use enumerate to get both the letter and its index at the same time.output


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#enumerate
