Natural Text
I am an all around newbie here (new to Blender, new to Python, and new to coding in general) so please bear with me.I have a Blender script that generates a specific geometry and then renders an image. In the same script, I would then like to create a PDF file containing that image.I have two different pdf generation scripts that work perfectly fine outside of Blender (I am using Spyder) but if I run the same code in Blender, I run into problems.Here is the first one:Here is the second one:Both scripts give me pretty much the same error: When I use jpeg instead of png, I get the following:A lot of online forums mention the need for PIL and/or pillow when working with images. I don't fully understand how I would use those libraries in my code, but if the code works without them in Spyder, I don't see why it would all of a sudden need them in Blender. Any help is very much appreciated!!! Feel free to ask for more information if my question is not clear :)Thanks!
Python provides an environment that allows you to run python code, the standard install contains the ability to read files and print text to the console running the python script, among a variety of other things.To use functionality that isn't included with the standard python install we can install and use third party modules, the reportlab module that you are using to create pdf's is an example of a third party module. The reportlab module knows how to create a pdf file, if you want it to add an image to the pdf then it will use another module that knows how to read image files. If a module used to read images is not available then it can't get the image information needed to add the image to the pdf but it can still create pdf's without images.When you install python, the main program and the various modules are installed into specific places that can be found when needed. An installation of blender contains it's own copy of python and it's standard library, which isn't setup to use any normal installation of python that you may have. As you have found, you can manually add items to blender's version of python but the failure within blender of a script that works in spyder (which is using the standard installation of python) indicates you have missed something.The second error is due to permissions that prevent a normal user writing to the applications folder, this happens as you are only specifying a filename which leads to trying to create the file in the current directory. You should be able to fix this error by using a full path to the target file instead of just the filename.You may want to look at the subprocess module to run your pdf creation script externally from blender, passing the location of the image created with blender as an argument. This will let you run your python script to automate the tasks in blender, and do the pdf generation in the same setup that you are using within spyder.
In your terminal typeThis will give you root access and then try running the code


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html
