Natural Text
It looks like sphinx.ext.autodoc has become the de-facto standard for "JavaDoc"-like comments in Python doc strings.Sphinx is used to generate the docs at docs.python.org.  But does it read the docstrings from the Python source .py files  (using autodoc) to present on docs.python.org?The library section of the docs includes method-by-method summaries, but these appear seamless with the text. Are they up-to-date with the comments in the source code?In other words, is there a place I can go in the documents to find exactly the same text (formatting aside) as consulting the docstrings from the interpreter?I haven't been able to find such a place yet. For example, looking at the docstring for print with the help mechanism yields:And when I look up print in the 3.6.2 docs (same version as used above), I find different documentation for print without any parameter-by-parameter description:print(*objects, sep=’ ‘, end=’\n’, file=sys.stdout, flush=False)Print  objects to the text stream file, separated by sep and followed by end.  sep, end, file and flush, if present, must be given as keyword  arguments.All non-keyword arguments are converted to strings like str() does and  written to the stream, separated by sep and followed by end. Both sep  and end must be strings; they can also be None, which means to use the  default values. If no objects are given, print() will just write end.The file argument must be an object with a write(string) method; if it  is not present or None, sys.stdout will be used. Since printed  arguments are converted to text strings, print() cannot be used with  binary mode file objects. For these, use file.write(...) instead.Whether output is buffered is usually determined by file, but if the  flush keyword argument is true, the stream is forcibly flushed.Changed in version 3.3: Added the flush keyword argument.
The docs aren't generated from the Python source code. You can see the .rst files under the Docs folder in the repository.Docstrings are separate. The docstrings are not used to generate the docs, and you won't find the docstrings in the docs.
Checking the conf.py file for the Python docs, there is no configuration for the autodoc extension. These docs do not use autodoc or read from source code docstrings.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#print
