Natural Text
My objective is to get the next closest date (in the future, not past) to today's date from a list. For simplicity's sake, the list (in the format of e.g. ; ) is each football game in the season and I am trying to create a script that in part finds the "next" football game. I have searched the internet and Stack Overflow for answers and found a promising post, however the solutions provided are using a different format and when I try to tailor it to mine, it trips exceptions. My logic includes parsing an RSS feed, so I am just going to provide the raw list instead. With this in mind, my simplified code is as follows:This is my attempt at adapting the previous post's solution (I am not well versed in functional programming, so I may not be adapting it right):Regardless of my attempt (which may not be the best in my situation as it changes the format and I need the end value to still be ), is there an easier way of doing this? I need that next game (closest to today) value as that will continue on to be used in my logic. So to recap, how can I find the closest date in my list, looking toward the future, from today. Thank you for your help!
You can do:For the single closest date to today. You can use the same function to sort by distance from today:And the returned list will be in increasing distance in days from today. Works if the dates are before or after today. If you want only dates in the future, filter out the dates in the past. Since the date strings are in ISO 8601 format, you can compare lexically:
first of all let's create  objects from strings using  and  methods since  objects are ordered and easier to work with:then let's filter out dates that take place in future (after today)then we can simply find next closest date using which gives usfor given exampleWARNINGIf there is no dates going after today this will cause error likeif it's ok then we can leave it, but if we don't want to get errors – we can specify default value for  in case of empty sequence likeFinally we can write a function as followsand use it like


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#datetime.datetime.strptime
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#datetime.datetime.date
