Natural Text
I'm stuck and need a little guidance. I'm trying hard to learn Python on my own using Grok Learning. Below is the Problem and example output along with where I am in the code. I appreciate any tips that will help me solve this problem.In linguistics, a bigram is a pair of adjacent words in a sentence. The sentence "The big red ball." has three bigrams: The big, big  red, and red ball.Write a program to read in multiple lines of input from the user, where each line is a space-separated sentence of words. Your program  should then count up how many times each of the bigrams occur across  all input sentences. The bigrams should be treated in a case  insensitive manner by converting the input lines to lowercase. Once  the user stops entering input, your program should print out each of  the bigrams that appear more than once, along with their corresponding  frequencies. For example:I haven't gotten very far with my code and am really stuck.  But here is where I am:Am I even doing this right? Try not to import any modules and just use built-in functionality.Thanks,Jeff
Let's start with the function that receives a sentence (with punctuation) and returns a list of all lowercase bigrams found.So, we first need to strip all non-alphanumerics from the sentence, convert all letters to lowercase counterparts, and then split the sentence by spaces into a list of words:We'll use the standard (builtin)  package for regular expression based substitution of non-alphanumerics with spaces, and the builtin  function to pair-up consecutive words. (We pair the list of words with the same list, but shifted by one element.)Now we can test it:Next, for counting bigrams found in each sentence, you might use .For example, like this:We get:Now we just need to print those that appear more than once:All put together, with a loop for user input, instead of the fixed list:The output:


Using only knowledge learnt from previous modules of the Grok Learning Python Course mentioned by the OP, this code works fine in performing what was required:Note: You may need to scroll right to fully view the notes made on code. It is pretty straightforward and doesn't require importing anything, etc. I realise I am quite late to the conversation, but hopefully anyone else doing the same course / struggling with similar problems will find this answer helpful.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.Counter
