Natural Text
I have this JSON object, and I'm trying to access the items list, but this produces the error:I tried parsing it with json.loads and json.dumps but neither of those worked either.
As it has curly brackets (), it's stored in a (ionary). This means you can't use the dot operator () to access the data inside.As it's a , you also can't access it like a . Instead, you need to use the keys available (the strings before the colons).In this case, you need to do something like  to access the  . 
Let me present a very simple example first, since this is going to be very useful for us later on. Imagine I have this simple function:Question: What is the first element of ? In other terms, what is . Be careful, I am not asking the first element of the output of it, i.e. ; my question is the first element of  itself! The former would be the first element of , which is ; but the latter will give me a , because a function can't be subscripted; akin to the fact that a recipe can produce delicious food, but you can't eat the recipe itself.Let's take a look at your error message:This means that you are somehow trying to subscript a 'builtin_function_or_method' object. Let's look at your code and understand what this error is due to. Luckily, your call is just one line, hence easy to debug:What you are doing is to reach the first element of the  function or method of a . Be careful, not the first element of the outcome, but the function itself. How am I so sure? Because you forgot the parentheses, therefore haven't even called the function yet, i.e. you didn't do .Let's look closer at the built-in  function of s. When we just run , this is the response we get: . Let's run the following to get some help about its docstring: , which returns the following:A-ha! We just saw what the error message we had mentioned: ! So the error is really due to your code not being able to call the function properly, but try to get the first element of the function itself.Let me give a simpler but equivalent example. Say, I have a list  and I want to find its smallest element. I can use the built-in function of , and then get the first element in the sorted list. Therefore the proper syntax would be  but if I forget the , and write  I will be trying to get the first element of not the result of the  function (because I didn't even call it to get a result!) but the first element of the function itself. Remember the recipe not being edible? Same thing.In summary: A function can return an iterable which you can subscript, but a function itself is not subscriptable.Let's play around with this function a little bit. Let's iterate on it as (key, value) pairs per docstring:This makes sense, because we indeed have 3 keys and corresponding 3 values.Now, how can you get the values corresponding to the key named ? Notice, this is one of your three keys, but has the same name as the built-in function of s we discussed above. This is where your confusion is coming from.The error message was due to the  function, let's discuss how to get the value corresponding to the key named . One inefficient way is using the loop syntax I presented above:There you go, here is your ! A second and efficient way of doing the same thing is calling the key name, and the values will be returned to us:To wrap-up:Pay attention to the cases where your  in a  has the same name of a built-in function or method.You can't do , but .You can also loop over the  function of s as  pairs and get the value corresponding to the key. But don't do this, this is inefficient compared to the constant time complexity of .If you are calling , make sure you actually put that function into action by . That is, don't eat the recipe, but eat what it produces.
testVar is a dictionary and dictionaries in Python have the items() method. For instance, in order to access all key/value pairs in this dictionary, you would use, according to Python docs. Notice the  method below. As pointed out by @FatihAkici, the statement  is syntactically incorrect in that you are trying to call the  method which does not support indexing. This means that you cannot access items within the object by index positions, like we do in lists:Accessing a list by index position:Meanwhile, as you can see the object  is of type  and can only be accessed by key/value.To access the  list, you can use list comprehensions. This is a compact way to access all items with less code:
The problem is with the print statement. JSON works as same as a dictionary.so to access any element in dictionary, we use dictionary_name[key]Therefore the below code works fine:(change the print statement in the code as below)
You can access the wanted variable by doing this:Because both "testVar" and "items" are dict variables.
Instead of:I would go even further and do:ORThe  helps you avoid the  Error when trying to get a value from 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#looping-techniques
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#dict.items
