Natural Text
I'm trying to make a program in Python 3.5 (the Python version shipped by Debian 9) that takes two command line arguments: an input file name and an output file name.The input file name must either precede the output file name oritself be preceded by .The output file name is optional.  If present, and the input filename is not preceded by , it must either follow the input filename or itself be preceded by .Thus I want to accept the following command lines:The usage message might look like this:But I can't tell from the documentation of the  module how to express this in arguments to .  When I give two names for a single argument, one positional and one named,  raises an exception:I searched Stack Overflow for similar questions and found hpaulj's answer to Python argparse - mandatory argument - either positional or optional and hpaulj's answer to argparse: let the same required argument be positional OR optional. The construction in these answers uses a group of two mutually exclusive arguments, one positional and one named.  But it doesn't appear to work with multiple such arguments.  Trying to parse  with a parser built this way produces a different exception:However,  itself has trouble printing this exception or even showing :The deprecated  module stored positional arguments in a separate list, which code that runs after parsing could read to fill in each argument that .  The direct counterpart to this list in  is .  Is handling positional arguments manually after calling  the only way to accept all command line forms shown above using ?
You could perhaps make your program accept a variable number of positional arguments (between 0 and 2) which would be added to a positional parameters list (with ), and also call  and  to handle the flag equivalents.Typically, argparse options fall either in the positional or optional category (but not both). So, you'll need to pass settings to argparse that allow some redundancy, and deal with conflicts after parsing. For instance, you can configure argparse to accept an input file both via  and as positional , but then you add a custom check after parsing to make sure only one of the two forms was used.Pseudocode:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html#argparse-remainder
