Natural Text
I want to assign 0-6 depend on the starting day. For example, if Wednesday is the starting day, I should set Wednesday to be 0 then Thursday to be 1, and Friday to be 2 etc...Here is what I have triedThis do not return the right number(ie:Wednesday is 7), It's iterating 9 times instead of 7 for some reason. I also tried slicing index starting at position 3 [3:] and this will skip the first 2 which is also not what I want. Ultimately, I'm just trying to change the start day of the week to be what I define instead of the fix Sunday hence the function. Once the I get the function working, I will do some sort of if statement to loop through the default week and replace it with this new dictionary. Thanks!
Output for Tuesday as the starting day (date_manipulate(2)){0: 'Tuesday', 1: 'Wednesday', 2: 'Thursday', 3: 'Friday', 4: 'Saturday', 5: 'Sunday', 6: 'Monday'}EDITIf you meant to get Tuesday: 0 and not 0: Tuesday in the dictionary, use
You can split the list into its two parts and concatenate them.In the 2nd sub list, it goes up to, but not including n
You can simplify your function by using enumerate like this:
You have for day in temp_week: but the only purpose of this is so that you can turn day into an integer by temp_week.index(day). You don't use day for anything else.Why so complicated? Simpler would be for i in range(7):,then just use i instead of temp_week.index(day).Next, temp_week.index(day)+offset%len(temp_week)will take offset modulo len(temp_week), which just evaluates to offset since offset is always at least 0 and less than len(temp_week);then you add offset to temp_week.index(day), which of course sometimes gives results greater than 6.Pay attention to the precedence of operators and use parentheses where needed:Of course the better way is to use the slices correctly as in Evyatar's answer.
This can be done using itertools really easily using cycle and dropwhile. The logic is cycle will create an infinitely long list of weeks, and dropwhile will be used to get the first day in the "cycle":OutputOr in a function


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#enumerate
