Natural Text
I'm launching a number of subprocesses with subprocess.Popen in Python.I'd like to check whether one such process has completed. I've found two ways of checking the status of a subprocess, but both seem to force the process to complete.One is using process.communicate() and printing the returncode, as explained here.Another is simply calling process.wait() and checking that it returns 0.Is there a way to check if a process is still running without waiting for it to complete if it is?
Ouestion: ... a way to check if a process is still running ...  You can do it for instance:  Python » 3.6.1 Documentation popen-objects Tested with Python:3.4.2 
Doing the As suggested by the main answer, is the recommended way and the simplest way to check if a process running. (and it works in jython as well)If you do not have the process instance in hand to check it.Then use the operating system TaskList / Ps processes.On windows, my command will look as follows:This is essentially doing the same thing as the following command line:And on linux, I do exactly the same using the:The ps command will already be returning error code 0 / 1 depending on whether the process is found. While on windows you need the find string command.This is the same approach that is discussed on the followig stack overflow thread:Verify if a process is running using its PID in JAVANOTE:If you use this approach, remeber to wrap your command call in    try:      foundRunningProcess = subprocess.check_output(argumentsArray, **kwargs)      return True    except Exception as err:      return FalseNote, be careful if you are developing with VS Code and using pure Python and Jython.On my environment, I was under the illusion that the poll()  method did not work because a process that I suspected that must have ended was indeed running.This process had launched Wildfly. And after I had asked for wildfly to stop, the shell was still waiting for user to  "Press any key to continue . . .".In order to finish off this process, in pure python the following code was working:On jython, I had to fix this code to look as follows:And with this difference the process did indeed finish.And the jython.poll() started telling me that the process is indeed finished.
You could use subprocess.check_output to have a look at your output.Try this code:Hope this helped!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#popen-objects
