Natural Text
I'm trying to store a pandas dataframe to a tempfile in csv format (in windows), but am being hit by:[Errno 13] Permission denied: 'C:\Users\Username\AppData\Local\Temp\tmpweymbkye'Where df is the dataframe. I've also tried changing the temp directory to one I am sure I have write permissions:This gives me the same error messageEdit:The tempfile appears to be locked for editing as when I change the loop to:I can write the file in the temp directory, but then it is not automatically deleted at the end of the loop, as it is no longer a temp file.However, if I change the code to:I get the same error message as before. The file is not open anywhere else.
Check your permissions and, according to this post, you can run your program as an administrator by right click and run as administrator.We can use the to_csv command to do export a DataFrame in CSV format. Note that the code below will by default save the data into the current working directory. We can save it to a different folder by adding the foldername and a slash to the file Check out your working directory to make sure the CSV wrote out properly, and that you can open it! If you want, try to bring it back into python to make sure it imports properly.refUnlike , the user of  is responsible for deleting the temporary file when done with it.With the use of this function may introduce a security hole in your program. By the time you get around to doing anything with the file name it returns, someone else may have beaten you to the punch.  usage can be replaced easily with , passing it the  paramete.Read more.After export to  you can close your file with .
Sometimes, it gives that error simply cos there is another file with the same name and it has no permission to delete the earlier file and replace it with the new file.So either name the file differently while saving it.orIf you are working on Jupyter Notebook or a other similar environment, delete the file after executing the cell that reads it into memory.So that when you execute the cell which writes it to the machine, there is no other file that exists with that name.
Sometimes，you need check the file path that if you have right permission to read and write file. Especially when you use relative path.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/tempfile.html
