Natural Text
To lead out I am aware this is a bad idea. Dictionaries are looking like a cleaner way of doing what I need to do but I'm looking for a place holder to hold things in piece while I figure out how to use dictionaries properly for what I need.In the meantime I have about a dozen lists and I'm trying to set the list name to use with a variable.So normally I'd use:But on different iterations of a loop I want to be able to use a different list which is being split from a larger string.Something like:Again, I know this is a bad idea and I'm trying to get my head around dictionaries but this would be the equivalent of duct tape to hold things together while I do that.I can't figure out a way to get this to work. It tells me that .append doesn't work with that (which I expected). I tried converting the whole thing with str() on a long shot but it of course told me you don't append to a string.I get this is probably not something you want to do commonly and if I do manage it by IDE is going to yell at me for doing stupid things but is it possible in the first place?
Any answer to your question will be more difficult to understand than dictionaries themselves. Anyway, here it goes.If your lists are global, they are stored in a dictionary returned by built-in function globals(). So you can fetch those lists from that dictionary and then append to them.So you can do:
Put the variables into a dictionary. Lists are one of those objects that are passed by reference, because a list is a reference to a complex object. Therefore, if you put it in a dictionary, you can still refer to it as x1, but you can also refer to it as d["x1"], so long as you don't delete it or reinitialize it using x1 = [].
Dictionaries are indeed the far superior solution. However, if you desperately need a work-around, you could leverage locals:This has the side benefit of being easily replaceable with a dict later, since you are actually using something dict-like.To be honest, though, replacing with dict just isn't that hard in this case.I can imagine some situations that would complicate the matter, though:There is also a similar globals if the variables are in module scope and this is in a function.If these are attributes on a class or an object, you can use getattr:
Dictionaries associate objects to other objects. They're not the worst thing to learn in Python.
The correct way to do that, as you know, is a dictionary.However, to do what you want to do, you could use exec()It is important to state that this is not recommended , but is the answer for your question.
Like everyone else has said, dictionaries are what you want.  I suppose if you really wanted to use lists only, you could do it like this:But, this is much more confusing than just learning to use dictionaries, which are pretty easy to grasp.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#exec
