Natural Text
There is an extra space in the output of a string. This is the section of the code where it happens. It happens in the string of the function, nameConfirmation().This is the output it gives.How do I get rid of the space in between the name and the punctuation?
You can append string with .Output:
If you use:You will notice that the output is:Look at  and  (). You can note in the output an space (), that is because  have a default argument called  an by default it's . That argument is an string that it's added at the end of each piece of string concatenated with a coma  in the  function.So if you do  it will be , because when you concatenate  and ,  will add   (and space) as glue.You can configure it:  would print !To solve your problem you can do two options.Change  and add an space  after : Or, concatenate using  the last two strings: Also there are a lot of another ways like: (I ordered them by worst to best in my subjetive opinion...)..Link with documentation:Python Official Documentation Python 3 Course (Use of  and , , , ,  and use of string class)PyFormat (Basic and advanced use of , , , value conversion, , ).P.S: This isn't part of the answer, it's just a note. don't need the space --> .Futhemorer  there is also called  that determine the end of a print ( = new line).P.S 2: Thanks Ouss for the idea of add some documentations links. I've just learnt that you can do !
Use the string variable substitution :For more on string manipulation and formatting in Python3, Check the following:https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-string-functions-in-python-3https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-working-with-strings-in-python-3https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-string-formatters-in-python-3
Each argument passed through the print command is automatically separated by a space.  I see you're in python 2, and I use python 3, so I'm not sure if this solution will work, but you can try doing this:This basically (assuming it works in python 2 as well) changes the separation between arguments to no space instead of 1 space.
The comma indicates a continuation on the same line with a space in between (you'll notice there's a space between "is" and "Raven", even though neither string has one in there). If you want to remove the spaces, the usual way to concatenate strings is with a plusEdit: Plus, not ampersand... stupid me


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#fancier-output-formatting
