Natural Text
I have been studying very hard to learn OOP. I understand that objects can be an instance of a class. Classes have parameters and methods and are like an 'object constructor' which the object is created from. I am reorganizing the code in my first project to allow whatever possible to be part of a class. Right now I am working on the GUI but I am having trouble understanding the process in constructing the GUI with classes. Particularly having tabs inside the class and adding objects into each tab. Here is an example of how my code currently looks:To put objects in each tab within , what do I do? I tried putting objects below  and then passing the parameter  in the object but that does not seem to work. Should I have a class for making tabs then create an object  and pass new objects into that?Thanks in advance for the help. Was unable to find this specific answer anywhere.
This code shows one way of adding things to the Notebook tabs. It implements some of abarnert's suggestions, plus a few of my own ideas. I've separated the Notebook off into its own class, and moved the Tk root initialization code into the main GUI class.I don't claim that this is the best way to do these things, I'm just illustrating a few possibilities to inspire you. ;)I do most of the work of creating the Notebook and the Menu in separate methods of . I could have put that code inside  but it's more modular to do it in separate methods, and it stops the  method from getting huge.I've saved the Notebook & Menu as instance attributes  and . That's not really necessary here, they could just be local variables of , eg,  and . But storing them as attributes makes them accessible from other methods of , which may be necessary when you add more stuff to the class.When you derive a class from a parent class, like  from  (or  from ), if the child class doesn't have its own  method then the parent's  will automatically get called when you create a child instance. But if the child has its own  then the parent  won't get called automatically. But we need the stuff in the parent  to get done to our new instance of  in order for the stuff that inherits from  to be initialized. So the  does the  call to make that happen.Generally, if a child class doesn't define a method that the parent class defines then when that method is called on a child instance the version from the parent will be called. And if the child does redefine an inherited method you will often want to call the parent method inside the child method at same stage, and it's usual to use  to do that.  is a bit special because it normally gets called automatically to initialize the instance after it's been created.Here's a simpler version that doesn't use child classes. It also has a Button widget on the root window which prints a string when you click it.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#super
