Natural Text
Let me first acknowledge that what I want to do may be considered anything from silly to evil, but I want to find out if I can do it in Python anyway.Let's say I have a function decorator that takes keyword arguments defining variables, and I want to access those variables in the wrapped function. I might do something like this:Now I can do something like:The thing I don't like about this is that when you use this decorator, you have to change the call signature of the function, adding the extra variable in addition to slapping on the decorator. Also, if you look at the help for the function, you see an extra variable that you're not expected to use when calling the function:This makes it look like the user is expected to call the function with 3 parameters, but obviously that won't work. So you'd have to also add a message to the docstring indicating that the first parameter isn't part of the interface, it's just an implementation detail and should be ignored. That's kind of crappy, though. Is there any way to do this without hanging these variables on something in the global scope? Ideally, I'd like it to look like the following:I am content with a Python 3 only solution if one exists.
You could do this with some trickery that inserts the variables passed to the decorator into the function's local variables:Can you do this? Sure! Should you do this? Probably not!(Code available here.)
EDIT: answer edited for readability. Latest answer is on top, original follows.If I understand wellyou want the new arguments to be defined as keywords in the @more_vars decoratoryou want to use them in the decorated functionand you want them to be hidden to the normal users (the exposed signature should still be the normal signature)Have a look at the @with_partial decorator in my library makefun. It provides this functionality out of the box:It yields the expected output and the docstring is modified accordingly:yieldsTo answer the question in your comment, the function creation strategy in makefun is exactly the same than the one in the famous decorator library: compile + exec. No magic here, but decorator has been using this trick for years in real-world applications so it is quite solid. See def _make in the source code.Note that the makefun library also provides a partial(f, *args, **kwargs) function if you want to create the decorator yourself for some reason (see below for inspiration).If you wish to do this manually, this is a solution that should work as you expect, it relies on the wraps function provided by makefun, to modify the exposed signature.You can test that it works:You can even make the decorator definition more compact if you use decopatch to remove the useless level of nesting:Finally, if you rather do not want to depend on any external library, the most pythonic way to do it is to create a function factory (but then you cannot have this as a decorator):I'm the author of makefun and decopatch by the way ;)
It sounds like your only problem is that help is showing the signature of the raw test as the signature of the wrapped function, and you don't want it to.The only reason that's happening is that wraps (or, rather, update_wrapper, which wraps calls) explicitly copies this from the wrappee to the wrapper.You can decide exactly what you do and don't want to copy. If what you want to do differently is simple enough, it's just a matter of filtering stuff out of the default WRAPPER_ASSIGNMENTS and WRAPPER_UPDATES. If you want to change other stuff, you may need to fork update_wrapper and use your own version—but functools is one of those modules that has a link to the source right at the top of the docs, because it's meant to be used as readable sample code.In your case, it may just be a matter of wraps(f, updated=[]), or you may want to do something fancy, like use inspect.signature to get the signature of f, and modify it to remove the first parameter, and build a wrapper explicitly around that to fool even the inspect module.
I've found a solution to this problem, although the solution is by most standards almost certainly worse than the problem itself. With some clever rewriting of the decorated function's bytecode, you can redirect all references to variables of a given name to a new closure you can dynamically create for the function. This solution only works for the standard CPython, and I have only tested it with 3.7.This behaves exactly as I wanted:This is almost certainly not ready for production use. I would be surprised if there weren't edge cases that behave unexpectedly, and possibly even segfault. I'd probably file this under the "educational curiosity" heading.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functools.html#functools.wraps
