Natural Text
As the title states, how would I find if the string has all digits without using the str.isdigit or a try/except. The code keeps checking the first character and not all. How do I fix that?

You can use all and a generator expression:This will go through each character in x and see if it is in NUMBERS.  If not, all will immediately stop checking and return False.  Otherwise, it will return True after it has confirmed that every character is a digit.  Below is a demonstration:Note too that it would be more efficient if you made NUMBERS a set:That way, t in NUMBERS will perform an O(1) (constant) hash lookup rather than an O(n) (linear) search through the string.  Granted, on strings this small, the performance impact of the linear search is not too worrisome.  However, that will quickly change whenever you are working with larger strings.
Actually, it looks like it is checking every character, but because it sets y for every character, it is the "numberless" of the last character that determines the value returned, regardless of what the other characters are.Instead, you should initialize y to True, and only set it to False if you ever find a non-number.  In fact, when that happens, you can immediately return.
If you are chefcking for the fact that all the letters are numbers, you can try the following expression:It is exactly the same as your code except it will also check whether all the characters within x are numbers. This is what has been missing in your code. The return value is always overwritten by the last check. Of course, using a loop and breaking out might be more efficient unless all does that internally for the generator expression, in which case the two are exactly equivalent.
A different approach would be to check them as sets:
Perhaps if you clear up the variable names the problem will be more clear:As you can see, you are evaluating if it is a number for each character, and changing the is_number variable each time.  So, only the last character will result in proper evaluation.You probably want to just return False when a non-digit is first detected.  Try if character not in NUMBERS set is_number to False and break the loop.
There are some good answers to do that. Here's another way to do it. You can count the number of characters that are not digits, by storing them in a list, the length of this list should be zero. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#all
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#grammar-token-generator_expression
