Natural Text
I'm trying to write a script that will go through a list of urls and scrape the web page connected to that url and save the contents to a text file. Unfortunately, a few random urls lead to a page that isn't formatted in the same way and that gets me an IndexError. How do I write a script that will just skip the IndexError and move onto the next URL? I tried the code below but just get syntax errors. Thank you so much in advance for your help. The error I get is:       File "dailynews.py", line 39         except IndexError:              ^      SyntaxError: invalid syntax
you would do something like:If you're in a loop, you could use continue instead of pass.continue will immediately jump to the next iteration of the loop,regardless of whether there was more code to execute in the iterationit jumps from. sys.exit(0) would end the program.
When I run your actual program, either the original version or the edited one, in either Python 2.5 or 2.7, the syntax error I get is:And the meaning of that should be pretty obvious: You can't return from a function if you aren't in a function. If you want to "return" from the entire program, you can do that with exit:(Note that you can give a value to exit, but it has to be a small integer, not an arbitrary Python value. Most shells have some way to use that return value, normally expecting 0 to mean success, a positive number to mean an error.)In your updated version, if you fix that (whether by moving this whole thing into a function and then calling it, or by using exit instead of return) you will get an IndentationError. The lines starting with outfile = … have to be either indented to the same level as the return None above (in which case they're part of the except clause, and will never get run), or dedented back to the same level as the try and except lines (in which case they will always run, unless you've done a continue, return, break, exit, unhandled raise, etc.).If you fix that, there are no more syntax errors in the code you showed us.I suspect that your edited code still isn't your real code, and you may have other syntax errors in your real code. One common hard-to-diagnose error is a missing ) (or, less often, ] or }) at the end of a line, which usually causes the next line to report a SyntaxError, often at some odd location like a colon that looks (and would be, without the previous line) perfectly valid. But without seeing your real code (or, better, a real verifiable example), it's impossible to diagnose any further.That being said, I don't think you want to return (or exit) here at all. You're trying to continue on to the next iteration of the loop. You do that with the continue statement. The return statement breaks out of the loop, and the entire function, which means none of the remaining URLs will ever get processed.Finally, while it's not illegal, it's pointless to have extra statements after a return, continue, etc., because those statements can never get run. And similarly, while it's not illegal to have two except clauses with the same exception, it's pointless; the second one can only run in the case where the exception isn't an IndexError but is an IndexError, which means never.I suspect you may have wanted a separate try/except around each of the two indexing statements, instead of one around the entire loop. While that isn't at all necessary here, it can sometimes make things clearer. If that's what you're going for, you want to write it like this:
Do the following:And as suggested by another user, remove the another except IndexError.
You cant "return"this is not a function call  use a "pass" or "break" or "continue"EDITtry this  


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html#sys.exit
