Natural Text
I am trying to create a coin toss three times using while loop, but   there are various issues here and iam not professional yet.My code didn't run the way i wanted it to run it's only a test code   for now...here are the issues:it is not looping for some reason, runs only once.it's only printing tails, never print heads.i have to place the elsestatement in the beginning of the line every time in order for theprogram to run without giving me an invalid syntax message...why??how do i make it loop 3 times exactly?ANY help will be appreciated. Code is below
Your main problem here is:I am assuming you'd like something more along the lines of this:Remember: Indentation is important in Python.While loop specification: https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#the-while-statement
Your 'while' clause is incorrect.  The statementis not evaluated as it evaluates to:In this case, a is your heads_counter variable, which is initialized to 0, hence it evaluates to false and your loop never runsAlso, as noted by khelwood, your indentation levels are incorrect.  Your else clause needs to be indented at the same level as the corresponding if clause
A note on style:Python has a remarkable verbosity that few other languages match. Use it! Don't do while a + b < 3, do for coinflip in range(3). Don't do result = random.randint(1,2) then parse random into heads or tails, do result = random.choice("heads","tails"). Heck, run it all at once in one big list and sort it later!My recommendations:which is more simplyor even more simply:
You need to be more explicit in the while condition:Your code is always false, because head_counter, initialized to 0, is false. That is enough to make the entire and'd condition false.(Update: as kachingy123 pointed out, you actually want to compare the sum of the two variables to 3. Python is more precise than English, which can use "and" as a synonymfor "plus".)You also need to indent the else clause to match the if, since a while loop can also take an else clause (which is executed when the loop exits due to its condition being false, rather than an explicit break).Finally, you need put your two variable assignments on separate lines. (You could just separate them with a semi-colon, but that isn't considered good practice.)
Looks like an indentation problem. If your else clause corresponds to your if, then it should be at the same indentation level as it.Also your while condition needs to check heads_counter <=3 and tail_counter <= 3 and your initialisation for your counter variables should be separated, as chepner pointed out.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#the-while-statement
