Natural Text
It is conventional to use pass statement in python like the following piece of code.So, 'pass' bascially does not do anything here. In this case, why would we still put a few codes like this in the program? I am confused. Many thanks for your time and attention.
It's for the parser. If you wrote this:And then put nothing in the except spot, the parser would signal an error because it would incorrectly identify the next indentation level. Imagine this code:The parser was expecting a statement with a greater indentation than the except statement but got a new top-level definition. pass is simply filler to satisfy the parser.
This is in case you want the code to continue right after the lines in the try block. If you won't catch it - it either skips execution until it is caught elsewhere - or fails the program altogether.Suppose you're creating a program that attempts to print to a printer, but also prints to the standard output - you may not want it to file if the printer is not available:If you would not use a try-catch an error would stop execution until the exception is caught (or would fail the program) and nothing would be printed to standard output.
The pass is used to tell the program what to do when it catches an error. In this particular case you're pretty much ignoring it. So you're running your script and if you experience an error keep going without worrying as to why and how.That particular case is when you are definite on what is expected. There are other cases where you can break and end the program, or even assign the error to a variable so you can debug your program by using except Error as e.or:
There are two uses of pass. First, and most important use :- if exception arises for the code under try, the execution will jump to except block. And if you have nothing inside the except block, it will throw IndentationError at the first place. So, to avoid this error, even if you have nothing to do when exception arises, you need to put pass inside except block.The second use, if you have some more code pieces after the try-except block (e.g. again some code and few more code), and you don't put pass inside except, then that code piece will not be executed (actually the whole code will not be executed since compiler will throw IndentationError). So, in order to gracefully handle the scenario and tell the interpreter to execute the lines after except block, we need to put pass inside the except block, even though we don't want to do anything in case of exception. So, here pass as indicated from name, handles the except block and then transfers the execution to the next lines below the except block.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/contextlib.html#contextlib.suppress
