Natural Text
I was hoping that someone could give me some examples of ways in which I can return calendar data that does the following. Returns the number of days in any given month (past/present/future),but after excluding Saturdays and Sundays. Example: input('Year: ') — 2018input('Month: ') — 7End Result: The number of weekdays in (July) of (2018) is (22).Assign an iterator to each weekday after excluding Sat. and Sun.Example: input('Year: ') — 2018input('Month: ') — 7input('date: ') — 20End Result: The (20) is a (Friday) and is the (15) weekday of (July), (2018).This is the code that I've been able to create so far...This only prints out a Text Calendar with Sat. and Sun at the end of each week, so I can at least visually exclude them. But I would really like to be able to programmatically exclude them and be able to input the above variables to calculate weekdays in a month, and which weekday each day is within that month. 
To get the number of weekdays in a month:To get the weekday number of a specific day, you can modify the above code to return the weekday count when the input day is reached. 
Here's one way to find the number of previous weekdays:Note that the type conversions for year, month, day are .Output:Ordinal number conversion from xsot on Code Golf.
One way to check the weekday of a date is to use the  object's  method. It is in python standard library  module. date.weekday()Return the day of the week as an integer, where Monday is 0 and Sunday is 6. For example, , a Wednesday. See also .
I made a simple solution in around 10 minutes. My approach relies heavily on list comprehensions and string methods such as join and split, so I recommend you look those up if your not familiar with them already. First split the result into lines, the tittle needs to be recentred, and the other lines needed the last characters removing.Recenter the first line by using the strip() method to removing the whitespace at the begging of the line, then adding two space beforehand.Take of the weekends by only including the first 15 characters of each line using list comprehensions.The last part was the hardest. The idea was to count how many day numbers there were in my formatted calendar. First put all the lines with day numbers into one big line, then split the line by spaces to get a list of all day numbers, and finally use the size of the list.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#datetime.date.weekday
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#datetime.date.isoweekday
