Natural Text
I know i feel like an idiot asking this. But it looks like my virtual environment might have some issue or maybe i am missing something very basic.I am creating a new python project and unable to import any packages within the project.I have used following commands:This gives me following project structure. I don't think i have missed anything. I do have other projects in the same virtual environment and they are working fine.I have tried to append this path to PYTHONPATH sys.path as well. Neither did that work and i don't think i should be added the path at all.I have tried to do the same using pycharm as well and am getting same error.Am i missing something.If i use relative import then i get I would be grateful for any help. Sorry i know it must be something stupid, its just i have spent alot of time without any success.Update: I am using Python 2.7
Your problem is that you're trying to run code from the middle of a package, while still trying to use it as part of a package. You can't do that.In Python, when you start the interpreter, the path to the script you're running, or the current working directory, gets added to .This means  is on your path, but  is not. And of course there is nothing named  in , therefore there is no package named  and no module named .If you really need to run a file out of a package, run it as a module, not as a script:Now,  is on your path, and it contains a directory , so you have a package named  and a package named .If you want a script that's runnable as a script, write a wrapper script at the top level, which will  and then call some function like  on it.Then you just run that wrapper script:Because it's in , not , again, your path is exactly what you want.If you're building your package around  so it can be distributable with , etc., you may want to specify entry points in  and let it generate the entry-point scripts for you, instead of doing it manually. This way it can do the same thing at install time, and make sure the scripts end up placed somewhere accessible, rather than possibly in the middle of a  or  archive, and that they have a proper shbang line for the system they're installed on, and so on.I have tried to append this path to PYTHONPATH sys.path as well. If you add  to , or manually add it to , it will work. My guess is that you either added the wrong thing, or forgot to tilde-expand it, but without seeing what you tried, that's just a guess; all I can say for sure is that you did something wrong.But at any rate, that's not the solution you want here. Because now the same file  is (in addition to being the top-level script ) both the top-level module  and the packaged module .It is illegal to put a package directory and its parent directory on . Practically speaking, no Python implementation actually tests for that—but it causes a whole world of confusion for no benefits, so you still don't want to do it.If i use relative import then i get  Yes, because the way you're running things,  is the top-level script , not the packaged module . It's not in a package, so  is illegal.But, after either of the fixes above, a relative path will work.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html#sys.path
