Natural Text
I am writing my own add on for the SRS Anki (2.1x).My script works outside of Anki, but I want to run it from the toolbar in Anki to act on cards called by Anki.I keep getting errors saying that the modules I am importing (such as pygame) are missing.I have done as Giorgan Borca-Tasciuc suggests hereand included the folders with the module files and init.py files to scan the folders. So for example, I have the folder 'pygame' inside the same folder as the folder that represents the addon script. Both have init.py files in.However, it always seems to find some module that isn't imported. For example, now it can't find the built-in Python package 'array'.I have also tried to hack this with lines in my addon script such as:Surely I don't have to include every possible module that every sub file uses. What am I doing wrong?Help much appreciated.
According to the documentation:Standard ModulesAnki ships with only the standard modules necessary to run the program - a full copy of Python is not included. For that reason, if you need to use a standard module that is not included with Anki, you’ll need to bundle it with your add-on.Now, how do you bundle add-ons? The documentation says:Sharing Add-onsFor a simple one-file add-on, you can upload the .py file. For multi-file add-ons, please create a subfolder that acts as a Python package, and create a small .py file that imports that package. Using the Japanese support add-on as an example, the structure looks like:To upload a multi-file add-on, please zip up the folder and the loader .py file and upload the zip.So you should place the modules you require in a support folder, and import them from there. Something like: can be a sort of configure-and-load- file, and  ( proper) can .
Share an experience that imports BeautifulSoup from bs4. Hope to help you.Downloading beautifulsoup4 source code, unzip the code and copy the "bs4" folder to Anki Add-On folder . Then restart Anki. My akPlugin.py script can find BeautifulSoup from bs4.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html
