Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:Why can't I call read() twice on an open file?                    7 answers                Python : The second for loop is not running                    1 answer                Why can't I repeat the 'for' loop for csv.Reader?                    2 answers                For loop not working twice on the same file descriptor [duplicate]                    3 answers                Iterating on a file using Python                    4 answers                I want to open and read file Mappe1.csv but it is not working. I am using Python 3.6.5 Anaconda. I do not know what I am doing wrong. Any ideas?File Mappe1.csv contains:The python code for opening Mappe1.csv looks like the following:The printout is "A" only. "B" and "C" does not get printed which leads me to the conclusion that the file was not read correctly.Are there any python/windows settings required to allow Python to read a file?Thank you for your help!
You need to supply to  file object, not . If you want to print Bs, you need to seek to the beginning of file, similar with the Cs.Prints:
csv.reader takes a file object as first parameter, not a list which is what file.readlines() returns.So your line:should be:your for loop to print('B') should be:your for loop to print('C') should work fine like it is although it is worth noting that you could directly set csv_file_list = list(csv_file). And you should reset your file to the first line with:
I use  for reading csvs when working with data. The code is very simple, and outputs the answer into a pandas . 
In your code, you are only printing , , or . Try printing the whole line instead. You will see that the  in  is an object where we are only accessing one part of it. From the docs, see the example:From this example, try:instead.Finally, you will want to change the way the files are being read. Your  is using  of . Try that instead of the . And your  does not actually have any property . You will need to 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html
