Natural Text
I have been trying to figure out a way to yield an int value from a generator but the scripting engine is throwing errors at me.The error is: File "ac.py", line 142, in inorderTraversal      yield n[0] TypeError: 'int' object is not subscriptablewhere . I tried to search it but no solution I know of caters to my needs.
if your  is correct, then when you do  in the recursive case is like you are doing  in that branch. So change it to  instead because the recursive case already give you what you need, you only need to pass it along. Furthermore, when designing a tree you usually do it in a way that  store, well, the data that the user of your tree want to store in it and don't worry about what that is or how it looks, so you usually do . Also as you are in python 3, you can use the  that is a shortcut for that kind of for-loop.with those in mind your code should look like this as you have not provided with a Minimal, Complete, and Verifiable example of your problem I can only guess, soLets see a example tree code like thiswith that lets build a sample tree like the one in wikipedialets do it again with your data structure of [int,str] now the fun part, the inorder function, first yourslets test it with look familiar? the error as I said is the recursive case of  when you reach the bottom Node (A in this case) it yield data[0] (1 in this case), in the Node above (B) it get this value and try to yield it again only this time try to yield the first value of it and fail in that regard as the error saidNow lets fix itand test it work as expected, lets try with the other one naturally it fail because inorder2 is not general enough, also in your current implementation, what if you want the string instead? have you think on that?, in general those concern should not be of relevance to this particular function, it should only provide all the data inorder so the general inorder and adding the  istest
You need to replace  with . You are already yielding the (integer) value of the node, so no need to index it further.Edit: Explanation added.
YieldsNot the exact error, but I'm testing this on an Android IDE, so that doesn't entirely surprise me. The answer then is that you're trying to subscript a set, but what does that mean? Sets are unordered, so there is no "0th" element of the set. If you want random access, you'll need to switch to a list. Or, if you're looking for just a simple temporary container, tuples are indexable. If  is node data, you could so just create a  class then access the field directly instead of indexing. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#yieldexpr
