Natural Text
So I set out to make a simple game of hangman and everything worked fine, the whole code worked but it lacked the ability to allow the user to replay when the game is over. Thus I set out to put all the code I have written in various functions. So that I can call the functions when they are required (I thought it was the most logical way to allow replay-ability). Various problems followed but one stood out.The main culprit (I think) is that I could not successfully get a value to update globally. I've read similar questions on the site but could not successfully adapt it to my case. I have a sample code to show what exactly I mean:I would need the program to remember what the value of "word" is and use this word in another method (this method is ran by another method showed below "Rules()"):I have tried defining "word" outside of the function. Doing this doesn't fix the problem, GameMode() will not successfully update the value of "word". And whatever the value of "word" defined outside of the function will be called and used by MainGame(). However doing this shows another problem.That being, the code that previously worked (it successfully read the input and correctly updated the game status) now does not work. Even if the correct letter is entered by the user, the program reads the input as incorrect. These are the two problems I have faced so far and have yet to find a way to overcome them.Note: I have successfully created a way to make the game replay-able by putting the entire original code (without the functions) inside a while loop. However I would still very much like to know how I can get the code to work using functions.Edit: This is the function for Rules():Wait() is just a delay function with a countdown.
Global vs. Local variables.You can reference and use a global variable from within a function, but you cannot change it. It's bad practice, but you CAN declare a variable within your function to be global and then changes to it inside your function will apply to the variable of the same name globally. HOWEVER, what I suggest is to return the word at the end of your function.
Functions can, and usually should, return values.  Make  return the word to the caller;From the  call  and save the word;
You almost certainly want to use a class with instance variablesContrived example:
To access a global variable from inside a function, you have to tell python that it is global:
You have to use global keyword in every method that the global variable is being used or python will think you are defining/ using a local variableHaving said that, you should avoid globals as a coding practise. 
use the codeabove the def or let the def return the value of word so it is stored in a variable outside the def


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#class-and-instance-variables
