Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:Tuple unpacking order changes values assigned                    4 answers                I have question when I do assignment for multiple variables for a list.Like the example above, the assignmentis different from the assignmentI am really confused the inside calculation order in Python. Why the results are different? What's the best way to do this kind of multiple assignment in one line?
Per the documentation:Python evaluates expressions from left to right. Notice that while  evaluating an assignment, the right-hand side is evaluated before the  left-hand side.For more detail, see this section. There is a good example of a brain-teaser exploiting this behaviour here.This means that the right-hand side of the  is evaluated first, left-to-right, then the assignment is made to the left-hand side, left-to-right. Necessarily, the brackets are evaluated inside-out. Breaking that down stepwise, here's the first example:And here's the second:The assignment to the left-hand target on the left-hand side alters the content of , which changes the indexing in the right-hand target. The  is assigned to either  or , depending on the value of  (which changes from  to ) when the index is calculated."What's the best way to do this kind of multiple assignment in one line?" - I'd do my very best to avoid it. I can't think of any situation where it would be necessary to assign to moving targets like this.
With how you're encouraged to do things like , you might think that multiple assignments like this are supposed to always bypass problems with one assignment interfering with another. Particularly, it's natural to think that all expression evaluations happen before any assignments. Unfortunately, that's not how it works.When you have a multiple assignment of the formthe order of events goes as follows:Evaluate the right-hand side, evaluating  and .Perform the first assignment, evaluating  and .Perform the third assignment, evaluating  and . The first assignment has already happened when these expressions are evaluated.That means that if assigning to  changes the value of  or , that will change what happens in the second assignment.In your case, assigning to  changes the value of  in the assignment target .Don't use a multiple assignment in cases like this. Separate the assignments onto their own lines, and use temporary variables if necessary to remember values that get changed by assignments.
The sequence of operations works the same for any multiple assignment:Evaluate every expression on the RHS (right-hand side), left to right, placing each into a temporary variable.Evaluate the expressions on the LHS (left), left to right.  For each of these, assign the corresponding temporary variable from the RHS.For your code, this expands to:The critical difference is when A[i] gets changed in each sequence.  IN the second example, when we evaluate A[A[i] - 1] in the final assignment, A[i] has already changed to 1.  Therefore, this last assignment puts 4 into location 0, rather than location 3.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#evaluation-order
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/simple_stmts.html#assignment-statements
