Natural Text
For my practice Controlled Assessment in Computer Science, I have to do a "Safety Quiz" in which all the questions have to be given randomly each time the quiz is started. The questions and their respective answers are below:What is CEOP?  Child Exploitation and Online Protection  Criminal Exploration and Online Protection  Child Exploitation and Organised Protectors  When you get an email from someone you do not know, what should you do?  Delete it and mark as spam  Reply and say hello  Forward to your friends  How secret should you keep your passwords?  Never give out passwords except to your parents  Give them only to your best friends  Give them to strangers  When an online contact who frightens you asks to meet you in person what should you do?  Report to CEOP  Arrange to meet them  Arrange to meet them with your best friendIf an email asks you to enter your bank account details because of a problem with your account what should you do?  Contact the bank to check if they sent the email  Reply to the email  Enter your bank account details  My first thought was put all the Questions into a list but then I realized I had no idea how to make each question appear in random order and also how to assign the answers to the questions in the list. I know how hard this must be to understand but any Hints, Tips and helpful comments are greatly appreciated.
You should combine questions and answers into one object. You could use a dictionary or a named tuple per question for example, or create custom class to model a question with appropriate answer.Then put those objects into a list and use  to change the order.Using a named tuple for example, would look like this:The  object keeps a question title and the possible answers together. You could add a 3rd field that records which one of the answers is correct, so you can verify the answer picked by whomever takes the quiz.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.shuffle
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.namedtuple
