Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:Filters in Python3 [duplicate]                    2 answers                Working in Python IDLE 3.5.0 shell. From my understanding of the builtin "filter" function it returns either a list, tuple, or string, depending on what you pass into it. So, why does the first assignment below work, but not the second (the '>>>'s are just the interactive Python prompts)  
Have a look at the python documentation for  (from here):Construct an iterator from those elements of iterable for which function returns true.So the get a list back you have to use:But this probably isn't what you wanted, because it tries to call the result of , which is "hello", on the values of your input list, and this won't work. Here also the iterator type comes into play, because the results aren't generated until you use them (for example by calling  on it). So at first you won't get an error, but when you try to do something with  it will stop working:If you want to check which elements in your list are equal to "hello" you have to use something like this:(I put your function into a lambda, see Randy C's answer for a "normal" function)
filter expects to get a function and something that it can iterate over. The function should return True or False for each element in the iterable. In your particular example, what you're looking to do is something like the following:Note that in Python 3, it may be necessary to use  to get this same result.
Please see this sample implementation of  to understand how it works in Python 3:The following is an example of how you might use  or  generators:
From the documentationNote that  is equivalent to In python3, rather than returning a list; filter, map return an iterable. Your attempt should work on python2 but not in python3 Clearly, you are getting a filter object, make it a list.
the reason why it returns  is that, filter is class instead of built-in function. you will get following:Help on class filter in module builtins:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#filter
