Natural Text
While loops are new to me and I'm having trouble getting my code to validate.DescriptionIn this exercise your function will receive two parameters: a  string(long_word) and a character(char). Use a while loop to go  through all the letters in the string and build a new string made up  from those letters until you find the char. You may assume that each  string will contain the passed in character(char).This is my code.Example outputWhen I go to run my code I get: 
To get rid of TypeError: cannot concatenate 'str' and 'xyz' objects, just  cast the object being concatenated to a string. If your code was  string + num or string += num just cast num to string like so:  str(num)BUT, your code won't return the desired output. See why below:If I'm not mistaken, the code shouldn't compile because when new is defined, you don't close the double quotes. Or if you are using single quotes, change your code and your question to reflect your change.When I ran your code and executed it, it went in an infinite loop, the beginner's worst enemy! In your code, the Is the same as saying new += long_word, because you are just adding the individual characters instead of the whole string at one go.Your code can then be rewritten as follows:Now it is clear what your code is doing. It's just adding the whole word to new each time the while loop is executed. And the while loop is executed till i != char. Since i is an int and char is a str, i != char is always true. Infinite loop in the making!Your function should look like this:Explanation:Go through each character in long_word from the start (this can be more easily accomplished using a for...in loop, but I'm using a while loop as per your request) and till the current character != char, add that character to new.This code returns the desired output for both your test cases.
ConsideringYou may assume that each string will contain the passed in  character(char).not including the char:including the char:Though a more pythonic way is, i.e.:Suggest you to use http://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html as a reference, when completing your assignments.
The "i" is int type which cannot be compared with a str type "char". 
There are a couple of ways similar to this to write this code. In your example, the while i != char line is going to result in a very long loop because it will loop until i == int(char), or possibly infinitely. I would write it with either a for or a while, as below:As a note, these are easy to understand examples, and a better way to do this would be


Answer URL
