Natural Text
I am trying to tie another piece into my existing Python program. I am new to Python and can't seem to figure it out, even with all of the help out there. I will list my existing Python program below, I would just like to add in the other piece to perform another task.The current program opens "initial.csv" and looks in the first column for any key words. If it matches one, it writes the line in "listname_rejects.csv" and any that don't match, it writes into "listname.csv". It sounds backwards, but for what I'm doing, it's correct. I've used it a thousand times.Now, what I would like to add into this, is the ability to look at column 2 (Full of addresses) and split them up into separate columns. For example, this - Turns into this - Basically, I need to be able to explode the second column into separate columns. Rather than having the entire address in column 2, I need to split it up between say column 2, 3, 4, & 5.I have found things close to this on stack overflow, but again, I'm new to Python and can't figure out how to piece them into my current code.
Let me know if this works, I may have mixed up your output csv names, but you can adjust those based on your logic:    I've inserted comments to help you understand what's going on. 
hope that next code helps you:I have placed my own csv files name but you can customize themThe main idea is that you can create your csv with columns what you want in your file and split the string correctlyRegards
althought the question is already answered I feel like you should broaden your knowledge with pandas module. I've implemented only the part with splitting the Address row. If you want, I can show you also the rest. pandas can be sometimes not straightforward, but once you get used to it, it is the easiest way to go in many of csv handling problems (not to mention other great features: working with databases etc.). The code is visible on my github page. Have a look!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html
