Natural Text
I try to run one example from the book "Python Essential Reference" involving observer pattern, but there is a problem with attribute. When the AccountObserver executes  the error raises - Object has no attribute 'observers'. I don't know what wrong is with the code, so any help would be very appreciate. And the output:
Python cleans out the module when the interpreter exits. At that point all instances and classes are deleted, and that means that  can run before . The order in which the classes are cleared depends on the global namespace dictionary order, which is random thanks to the random hash seed used.  deletes  so any later call to  will raise an .Your code relies on the classes and attributes all still being there when the module exits. That means you can get both  errors (as  was already unregistered), or  as the  attribute is already cleared (because  cleared it).There is a big fat warning in the  documentation:Warning: Due to the precarious circumstances under which  methods are invoked, exceptions that occur during their execution are ignored, and a warning is printed to  instead. Also, when  is invoked in response to a module being deleted (e.g., when execution of the program is done), other globals referenced by the  method may already have been deleted or in the process of being torn down (e.g. the import machinery shutting down). For this reason,  methods should do the absolute minimum needed to maintain external invariants. Starting with version 1.5, Python guarantees that globals whose name begins with a single underscore are deleted from their module before other globals are deleted; if no other references to such globals exist, this may help in assuring that imported modules are still available at the time when the  method is called.The work-around is to make your  method more robust in the face of such exceptions:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONHASHSEED
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html#object.__del__
