Natural Text
I am learning python and running through it. Great language, very easy to learn and very flexible. Here's my issue. I am taking Udacity's Intro to CS course which teaches python 2.7, codecademy's is also 2.7 and I am also taking tree-house which is 3.4. I like 3.4 much better and plan on using it, but I also have about 30 eBooks that are a mixed bag concerning versions. I am running through learning the basics using each site one step at a time, so I can get a really deep understanding into how the language works. This is working well for me, and I immediately noticed the differences in 2/3. Most of my material is sadly 2.7 and below, so far I have only made my rounds through the materials string formatting, booleans and basic functions. **Is there any reason I shouldn't learn 2.7 and mix learning the two, is there a noticable difference that will affect my coding.I am not looking for a debate on which version better, or which should I learn. I am just trying to see if it will be bad practice to learn both concurrently. I come from PHP, which has some major changes between versions and can lead to bad practices cross-learning versions.**
Some of the Code has changed. The changes cover even basic things like input and output. There are too many changes to list them all out in an answer, but this link covers basic differences: inventwithpython.com/appendixa.html and you can find more in depth information at wiki.python.org/moin/Python2orPython3 If you follow the links in the first section of the second link, it covers just about any changes you need to know. Personally I prefer Python 2.7, due to it being a bit faster and having more 3rd party support. If you are going to follow 2.7 tutorials and use 3.x for IDLE, you should at least understand the differences between the two, or you will get errors.
The differences aren't significant enough to be a concern for beginners. You should be able to migrate your programs to python3 in few minutes, with many of them not needing any changes.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/pyporting.html
