Natural Text
I made a little test case to compare YAML and JSON speed :And the result is :I am using PyYAML 3.11 with libyaml C library on ubuntu 12.04.I know that json is much more simple than yaml, but with a 223x ratio between json and yaml I am wondering whether my configuration is correct or not.Do you have same speed ratio ?How can I speed up  ?
You've probably noticed that Python's syntax for data structures is very similar to JSON's syntax.What's happening is Python's  library encodes Python's builtin datatypes directly into text chunks, replacing  into  and deleting  here and there (to oversimplify a bit).On the other hand,  has to construct a whole representation graph before serialising it into a string.The same kind of stuff has to happen backwards when loading.The only way to speedup  would be to write a new , but I doubt it could be a huge leap in performance, except if you're willing to write your own single-purpose sort-of  parser, taking the following comment in consideration:YAML builds a graph because it is a general-purpose serialisation  format that is able to represent multiple references to the same  object. If you know no object is repeated and only basic types appear,  you can use a json serialiser, it will still be valid YAML.-- UPDATEWhat I said before remains true, but if you're running  there's a way to speed up  parsing. By default, Python's  uses the Python parser. You have to tell it that you want to use   parser.You can do it this way:In order to do so, you need  (package later renamed to ) installed, for instance with apt-get:And  with  as well. But that's already the case based on your output.I can't test it right now because I'm running OS X and  has some trouble installing  but if you follow PyYaml documentation, they are pretty clear that performance will be much better.
For reference, I compared a couple of human-readable formats and indeed Python's yaml reader is by far the slowest. (Note the log-scaling in the below plot.) If you're looking for speed, you want Python's built-in JSON reader:Code to reproduce the plot:
Yes, I also noticed that JSON is way faster. So a reasonable approach would be to convert YAML to JSON first. If you don't mind ruby, then you can get a big speedup and ditch the  install altogether:Here is a comparison for 100K records:And for 1M records:If you insist on using yaml.load anyway, remember to put it in a virtualenv to avoid conflicts with other software.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html
