Natural Text
my program works until it gets the to "if" part, then it just stops working. any ideas? can somebody please just fix it and post it on here please:L 
I guess the variables are actually strings and you tried to compare two strings with ">". Try cast string to int first.
When you define you variables to str() you are assigning them to an empty string (try to run str() in the command shell or IDLE and see its return value).Then, with your input() function you are re-defining the variables to some strings, and in the if statements you are comparing strings with those comparison operators! What it does, when comparing strings, is checking the first character of the string! so, a string starting with 'b' is greater than a string starting with 'a', and 'c' > 'b' > 'a' and so on and so forth.When the string is a number, like this '1234412' it checks the absolute value of the first digit, so '1231432' > '2' would return False, since 2 is bigger than 1.What you want to do is, when asking for input, say that the variable should be equal to the number that was written by the user. like this:But this may throw in an error if the user doesn't type a number, so you may want to catch the error, and still ask for valid input! Do it like this:You may also want to join the if-statements that are working in pairs! You might do this in 2 ways: an Else statement, or an Elif statement... The Else statement executes if all the other If-Elif statements evaluated to False; An Elif statement executes if all the If-Elif statements above it, in the same block, evaluated to False!.When using an If-Elif-Else block like this, you always know that one, and only one of the code parts will execute, because when one condition evaluates True, it enters that statement's indented code, and when it finishes it skips all of the other conditions! Code like this will work in the following way:Although the a<30 is True, it will only call the first print, because when the interpreter enters the first if, it will automatically skip all the other elif's and the else statement.


Answer URL
