Natural Text
I am doing browser automation using python + splinter.my structure is like thisstart.py sets the initialization and opening of the browserand the inner modules.py performs actions per modulethis structure would then be merged into one script upon execute by appending the contents in this fasion:My question is, is there a better way of doing this?  I'm quite new to this and just usually create a single script. since my project keeps on expanding I had to employ several other guys to script with me.  Hence I came up with this approach.
No, Python has no simple way to merge scripts into one .py file.But you can fake it, albeit in a fairly limited way.Heres an example of how you can define multiple modules (each with their own namespace), in a single file.But has the following limitations.No package support(although this could be made to work).No support for modules depending on eachother(a module can't be imported unless its already defined).Example - 2 modules, each containing a function:Note, this isn't good practice, if you have this problem, you're probably better off with some alternative solution (such as using https://docs.python.org/3/library/zipimport.html)
See my GitHub project.There is likely a better way for your needs.  I developed this project/hack for programming contests which only allow the contestant to submit a single .py file.  This allows one to develop a project with multiple .py files and then combine them into one .py file at the end.My hack is a decorator @modulize which converts a function into a module.  This module can then be imported as usual.  Here is an example.I also have a script which can combine a project of many .py files which import each other into one '.py' file.For example, assume I had the following directory structure and files:The combined file will look as follows.  The code on the top defines the @modulize decorator.
Instead of appending the contents into a single *.py file, why not just import what you need from the code that the other people in your team write?


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/zipimport.html
