Natural Text
When I meet the situation I can do it in javascript, I always think if there's an foreach function it would be convenience. By foreach I mean the function which is described below:they just do it on every element and didn't yield or return something,i think it should be a built-in function and should be more faster than writing it with pure Python, but I didn't found it on the list,or it just called another name?or I just miss some points here?Maybe I got wrong, cause calling an function in Python cost high, definitely not a good practice for the example. Rather than an out loop, the function should do the loop in side its body looks like this below which already mentioned in many python's code suggestions:but I thought foreach is still welcome base on the two facts:In normal cases, people just don't care about the performanceSometime the API didn't accept iterable object and you can't rewrite its source.
Every occurence of "foreach" I've seen (PHP, C#, ...) does basically the same as pythons "for" statement.These are more or less equivalent:So, yes, there is a "foreach" in python. It's called "for".What you're describing is an "array map" function. This could be done with list comprehensions in python:
Python doesn't have a foreach statement per se. It has for loops built into the language.If you really wanted to, you could define your own foreach function:As a side note the for element in iterable syntax comes from the ABC programming language, one of Python's influences.
Other examples:Python Foreach Loop:Python For Loop:
map can be used for the situation mentioned in the question.E.g.For functions that take multiple arguments, more arguments can be given to map:It returns a list in python 2.x and an iterator in python 3In case your function takes multiple arguments and the arguments are already in the form of tuples (or any iterable since python 2.6) you can use itertools.starmap. (which has a very similar syntax to what you were looking for). It returns an iterator.E.g. gives us 8 and 9
If I understood you right, you mean that if you have a function 'func', you want to check for each item in list if func(item) returns true; if you get true for all, then do something.You can use 'all'.For example: I want to get all prime numbers in range 0-10 in a list:
Look at this article. The iterator object nditer from numpy package, introduced in NumPy 1.6, provides many flexible ways to visit all the elements of one or more arrays in a systematic fashion.Example:
This does the foreach in python 3test=[0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,"test"]


Answer URL
