Natural Text
My first question is what is the more abstract question for the question: 'what is the operation that returns 6 for the expression  (2 and 2*3)? Please feel free to retitle my question appropriately.My second question is what is it that is going on in python that returns 6 for (2 and 2*3). There seems something elegant going on here, and I'd like to read up on this operation.
From the Python language reference:Note that neither and nor or restrict the value and type they return to False and True, but rather return the last evaluated argument.As such, 2 and 2*3 means it first evaluates bool(2), which evaluates to True, and then it evaluates bool(2*3) which evaluates to True. Therefore it'll return the last evaluated argument, which is 2*3 (6).
According to the python docsx and y : if x is false, then x, else y
First you have to read this and then you have to read this. :)After that you will know that and is a boolean operator, that tries to convert it's first operand to boolean. So if you read the first thing you will see that 2 is converted to True.The third thing you need to know is that the and operand will return it's first argument if it is converted to False and it's second argument if it evaluates to True.So basicallyCan be translated to:And now you understand everything. :)2 is evaluated to True and then and operator returns the value of it's second argument which is 6.
Applying lazy evaluation, python return for a and b a if a evaluates to False and b if a evaluates to True.Hence 2 evaluates to True, 2 and 2*3 return 2*3 which equals 6.
Basically it's same as 2 and 6. How it works? and returns first element if it's considered False (False, 0, [] ...) and return second otherwise
This is to do with how Python evaluates the expression x and y. It returns y if x is True, and x if x if False.So, in case of 2 and 2 * 3, since 2 is evaluated to True, it would return the value 2 * 3, which is 6.In case of and operation between multiple operands, it returns the 1st non-True value, and if all the values are True, it returns the last value.Similarly, for or operator, the expression say, A or B or C, returns the 1st True value. And if all the values are False, it returns the last value.


Answer URL
