Natural Text
I've made a program which has a main thread that spawns many other threads by subclassing the threading.Thread class. Each such child thread runs an infinite while loop, and inside the loop I check a condition. If the condition is true, I make the thread sleep for 1 second using time.sleep(1) and if it's false, then the thread performs some computation.The program itself works fine and I've achieved what I wanted to do, my only remaining problem is that I seem unable to stop the threads after my work is done. I want the user to be able to kill all the threads by pressing a button or giving a keyboard interrupt like Ctrl+C.For this I had tried using the signal module and inserted a conditon in the threads' loops that breaks the loop when the main thread catches a signal but it didn't work for some reason. Can anyone please help with this?EDIT: This is some of the relevant code snippets:
Your basic method does work, but you've still not posted enough code to show the flaw. I added a few lines of code to make it runnable and produced a result like:The problem demonstrated above involves the signal handler telling all the threads to exit, except the main thread, which still runs and still catches interrupts. The full source of this variant of the sample snippet is:The problem here is that the main thread never checks for the quit condition. But as you never posted what the main thread does, nor how the signal handler is activated, or information regarding whether threads may go a long time without checking the quit condition... I still don't know what went wrong in your program. The signal example shown in the library documentation raises an exception in order to divert the main thread. Signals are a rather low level concept for this task, however. I took the liberty of writing a somewhat more naïve version of the main thread:This version catches the exception thrown by the default interrupt handler, signals the thread to stop, and waits for it to do so. It might even be appropriate to change the except clause to a finally, since we could want to clean the threads up on other errors too. 
If you want to do this kind of "cooperative" polled-shutdown, you can use a threading.Event to signal:But be aware that if the "payload" does something blocking like network or file IO, that op will not be interrupted. You can do those blocking ops with a timeout, but that obviously will complicate your code.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/signal.html#example
https://docs.python.org/3/library/signal.html#signals-and-threads
