Natural Text
Let's say I have a string 'gfgfdAAA1234ZZZuijjk' and I want to extract just the '1234' part.I only know what will be the few characters directly before AAA, and after ZZZ the part I am interested in 1234.With sed it is possible to do something like this with a string:And this will give me 1234 as a result.How to do the same thing in Python?
Using regular expressions - documentation for further referenceor:
Then you can use regexps with the re module as well, if you want, but that's not necessary in your case. 
regular expressionThe above as-is will fail with an AttributeError if there are no "AAA" and "ZZZ" in your_textstring methodsThe above will return an empty string if either "AAA" or "ZZZ" don't exist in your_text.PS Python Challenge?

You can use re module for that:
With sed it is possible to do something like this with a string:echo "$STRING" | sed -e "s|.*AAA\(.*\)ZZZ.*|\1|"And this will give me 1234 as a result.You could do the same  with re.sub function using the same regex.In basic sed, capturing group are represented by \(..\), but in python it was represented by (..).
you can do using just one line of coderesult will receive list...
You can find first substring with this function in your code (by character index). Also, you can find what is after a substring. 
In python, extracting substring form string can be done using findall method in regular expression (re) module.
Just in case somebody will have to do the same thing that I did. I had to extract everything inside parenthesis in a line. For example, if I have a line like 'US president (Barack Obama) met with ...' and I want to get only 'Barack Obama' this is solution:I.e. you need to block parenthesis with slash \ sign. Though it is a problem about more regular expressions that Python.Also, in some cases you may see 'r' symbols before regex definition. If there is no r prefix, you need to use escape characters like in C. Here is more discussion on that. 

Surprised that nobody has mentioned this which is my quick version for one-off scripts:
Here's a solution without regex that also accounts for scenarios where the first substring contains the second substring. This function will only find a substring if the second marker is after the first marker.
Gives
One liners that return other string if there was no match.Edit: improved version uses next function, replace "not-found" with something else if needed:My other method to do this, less optimal, uses regex 2nd time, still didn't found a shorter way:


Answer URL
