Natural Text
I have a piece of code as below:So while printing the above tuple in the desired format for a particular index I found a code like this:I'm wondering how the single value  is recognised as a tuple of two values by the format specifier ?  Please explain this mechanism with a documentation reference.  How can I use a comprehension to format all the values in  in the required format as in the example shown?
First, the easy question:How can I use a comprehension to format all the values in  in the required format as in the example shown?That's a list comprehension: Now, the harder question!how the single value  is recognised as a tuple of two values by the format specifier ?Your intuition that something a bit strange is going on here is correct.  Tuples are special-cased in the language for use with string formatting.  The percent-style string formatting does not duck-type properly.  So, if you actually wanted to format a tuple, you'll have to wrap it in another tuple, unlike any other kind of object:The relevant section of the documentation is at section 4.7.2. -style String Formatting, where it is mentioned:If format requires a single argument, values may be a single non-tuple object.  Otherwise, values must be a tuple with exactly the number of items specified by the format stringThe odd handling of tuples is one of the quirks called out in the note at the beginning of that section of the documentation, and one of the reasons that the newer string formatting method  is recommended instead. Note that the handling of the string formatting happens at runtime†.  You can verify this with the abstract syntax tree: parses to a binary operation on  and , which is handled like , in CPython that's a  opcode.  This means it's usually up to the  type to decide what to do when the  received is incorrect*, which occurs only once the expression is evaluated, i.e. once the interpreter has reached that line.  So, it doesn't really matter whether the  is the wrong type or has too few/too many elements - that's a runtime error, not a syntax error.  † Except in some special cases where CPython's peephole optimizer is able to "constant fold" it at compile time.* Unless 's type subclasses , in which case  should be able to control the result.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#printf-style-string-formatting
