Natural Text
I want to eliminate all the whitespace from a string, on both ends, and in between words.I have this Python code:But that only eliminates the whitespace on both sides of the string. How do I remove all whitespace?
If you want to remove leading and ending spaces, use : If you want to remove all spaces, use :If you want to remove duplicated spaces, use :
To remove only spaces use :To remove all whitespace characters (space, tab, newline, and so on) you can use  then :or a regular expression:If you want to only remove whitespace from the beginning and end you can use :You can also use  to remove whitespace only from the beginning of the string, and  to remove whitespace from the end of the string.
An alternative is to use regular expressions and match these strange white-space characters too. Here are some examples:Remove ALL spaces in a string, even between words:Remove spaces in the BEGINNING of a string:Remove spaces in the END of a string:Remove spaces both in the BEGINNING and in the END of a string:Remove ONLY DUPLICATE spaces: (All examples work in both Python 2 and Python 3)
Whitespace includes space, tabs, and CRLF. So an elegant and one-liner string function we can use is translate:OR if you want to be thorough:
For removing whitespace from beginning and end, use .
MaK already pointed out the "translate" method above. And this variation works with Python 3 (see this Q&A).
Be careful: does a rstrip and lstrip (removes leading and trailing spaces, tabs, returns and form feeds, but it does not remove them in the middle of the string).If you only replace spaces and tabs you can end up with hidden CRLFs that appear to match what you are looking for, but are not the same.

In addition, strip has some variations:Remove spaces in the BEGINNING and END of a string:Remove spaces in the BEGINNING of a string:Remove spaces in the END of a string:All three string functions  , and  can take parameters of the string to strip, with the default being all white space. This can be helpful when you are working with something particular, for example, you could remove only spaces but not newlines:Or you could remove extra commas when reading in a string list:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.join
