Natural Text
I got the following problem: I would like to read a data textfile which consists of two columns, year and temperature, and be able to calculate the minimum temperature etc. for each year. The whole file starts like this:and so on, until year 2013. I had the following idea:With this I get only the year 1995 data which is what I want in a first step. In a second step I would like to calculate the minimal temperature of the whole dataset in year 1995. By using the script above, I however get the minimum temperature for every line in the datafile. I tried building a list and then appending the temperature but I run into trouble if I want to transform the year into an integer or the temperature into a float etc.I feel like I am missing the right idea how to calculate the minimum value of a set of values in a column (but not of the whole column).Any ideas how I could approach said problem? I am trying to learn Python but still at a beginners stage so if there is a way to do the whole thing without using "advanced" commands, I'd be ecstatic!
I could do this using the regexp
You could use the csv module which would make it very easy to read and manipulate each row of your file:Afterwards it is just a matter of finding the min temperature in the rows. Seecsv module documentation
If you just want the years and the temps:
I've previously submit another approach, using a numpy library, that could be confusing considering that you are new to python. Sorry for that. As you mentioned yourself, you need to have some kind of record of the year 1995, but you don't need a list for that:Note the cast to int of the year, so you can directly compare it to 1995, and the condition after it:If the variable mintemp1995 has never set before (is None and therefore, the first entry of the dataset), or the current temperature is lower than that, it replaces it, so you have a record of only the lowest temperature.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html#csv.reader
