link:
library/msilib.html#gui-classes

docs:

GUI classes¶
 provides several classes that wrap the GUI tables in an MSI
database. However, no standard user interface is provided; use
 to create MSI files with a user-interface
for installing Python packages.


class (dlg, name)¶
Base class of the dialog controls. dlg is the dialog object the control
belongs to, and name is the control’s name.


(event, argument, condition=1, ordering=None)¶
Make an entry into the  table for this control.



(event, attribute)¶
Make an entry into the  table for this control.



(action, condition)¶
Make an entry into the  table for this control.




class (dlg, name, property)¶
Create a radio button control named name. property is the installer property
that gets set when a radio button is selected.


(name, x, y, width, height, text, value=None)¶
Add a radio button named name to the group, at the coordinates x, y,
width, height, and with the label text. If value is , it
defaults to name.




class (db, name, x, y, w, h, attr, title, first, default, cancel)¶
Return a new  object. An entry in the  table is made,
with the specified coordinates, dialog attributes, title, name of the first,
default, and cancel controls.


(name, type, x, y, width, height, attributes, property, text, control_next, help)¶
Return a new  object. An entry in the  table is
made with the specified parameters.
This is a generic method; for specific types, specialized methods are
provided.



(name, x, y, width, height, attributes, text)¶
Add and return a  control.



(name, x, y, width, height, text)¶
Add and return a  control.



(name, x, y, width, height)¶
Add and return a  control.



(name, x, y, width, height, attributes, text, next_control)¶
Add and return a  control.



(name, x, y, width, height, attributes, property, text, next_control)¶
Add and return a  control.



(name, x, y, width, height, attributes, property, text, next_control)¶
Add and return a  control.



See also
Dialog Table
Control Table
Control Types
ControlCondition Table
ControlEvent Table
EventMapping Table
RadioButton Table

