link:
library/codecs.html#stream-encoding-and-decoding

docs:

Stream Encoding and Decoding¶
The  and  classes provide generic
working interfaces which can be used to implement new encoding submodules very
easily. See  for an example of how this is done.

StreamWriter Objects¶
The  class is a subclass of  and defines the
following methods which every stream writer must define in order to be
compatible with the Python codec registry.


class (stream, errors='strict')¶
Constructor for a  instance.
All stream writers must provide this constructor interface. They are free to add
additional keyword arguments, but only the ones defined here are used by the
Python codec registry.
The stream argument must be a file-like object open for writing
text or binary data, as appropriate for the specific codec.
The  may implement different error handling schemes by
providing the errors keyword argument. See Error Handlers for
the standard error handlers the underlying stream codec may support.
The errors argument will be assigned to an attribute of the same name.
Assigning to this attribute makes it possible to switch between different error
handling strategies during the lifetime of the  object.


(object)¶
Writes the object’s contents encoded to the stream.



(list)¶
Writes the concatenated list of strings to the stream (possibly by reusing
the  method). The standard bytes-to-bytes codecs
do not support this method.



()¶
Flushes and resets the codec buffers used for keeping state.
Calling this method should ensure that the data on the output is put into
a clean state that allows appending of new fresh data without having to
rescan the whole stream to recover state.


In addition to the above methods, the  must also inherit
all other methods and attributes from the underlying stream.


StreamReader Objects¶
The  class is a subclass of  and defines the
following methods which every stream reader must define in order to be
compatible with the Python codec registry.


class (stream, errors='strict')¶
Constructor for a  instance.
All stream readers must provide this constructor interface. They are free to add
additional keyword arguments, but only the ones defined here are used by the
Python codec registry.
The stream argument must be a file-like object open for reading
text or binary data, as appropriate for the specific codec.
The  may implement different error handling schemes by
providing the errors keyword argument. See Error Handlers for
the standard error handlers the underlying stream codec may support.
The errors argument will be assigned to an attribute of the same name.
Assigning to this attribute makes it possible to switch between different error
handling strategies during the lifetime of the  object.
The set of allowed values for the errors argument can be extended with
.


([size[, chars[, firstline]]])¶
Decodes data from the stream and returns the resulting object.
The chars argument indicates the number of decoded
code points or bytes to return. The  method will
never return more data than requested, but it might return less,
if there is not enough available.
The size argument indicates the approximate maximum
number of encoded bytes or code points to read
for decoding. The decoder can modify this setting as
appropriate. The default value -1 indicates to read and decode as much as
possible.  This parameter is intended to
prevent having to decode huge files in one step.
The firstline flag indicates that
it would be sufficient to only return the first
line, if there are decoding errors on later lines.
The method should use a greedy read strategy meaning that it should read
as much data as is allowed within the definition of the encoding and the
given size, e.g.  if optional encoding endings or state markers are
available on the stream, these should be read too.



([size[, keepends]])¶
Read one line from the input stream and return the decoded data.
size, if given, is passed as size argument to the stream’s
 method.
If keepends is false line-endings will be stripped from the lines
returned.



([sizehint[, keepends]])¶
Read all lines available on the input stream and return them as a list of
lines.
Line-endings are implemented using the codec’s decoder method and are
included in the list entries if keepends is true.
sizehint, if given, is passed as the size argument to the stream’s
 method.



()¶
Resets the codec buffers used for keeping state.
Note that no stream repositioning should take place.  This method is
primarily intended to be able to recover from decoding errors.


In addition to the above methods, the  must also inherit
all other methods and attributes from the underlying stream.


StreamReaderWriter Objects¶
The  is a convenience class that allows wrapping
streams which work in both read and write modes.
The design is such that one can use the factory functions returned by the
 function to construct the instance.


class (stream, Reader, Writer, errors='strict')¶
Creates a  instance. stream must be a file-like
object. Reader and Writer must be factory functions or classes providing the
 and  interface resp. Error handling
is done in the same way as defined for the stream readers and writers.

 instances define the combined interfaces of
 and  classes. They inherit all other
methods and attributes from the underlying stream.


StreamRecoder Objects¶
The  translates data from one encoding to another,
which is sometimes useful when dealing with different encoding environments.
The design is such that one can use the factory functions returned by the
 function to construct the instance.


class (stream, encode, decode, Reader, Writer, errors='strict')¶
Creates a  instance which implements a two-way conversion:
encode and decode work on the frontend — the data visible to
code calling  and , while Reader and Writer
work on the backend — the data in stream.
You can use these objects to do transparent transcodings from e.g. Latin-1
to UTF-8 and back.
The stream argument must be a file-like object.
The encode and decode arguments must
adhere to the  interface. Reader and
Writer must be factory functions or classes providing objects of the
 and  interface respectively.
Error handling is done in the same way as defined for the stream readers and
writers.

 instances define the combined interfaces of
 and  classes. They inherit all other
methods and attributes from the underlying stream.

