link:
library/posix.html

docs:


 — The most common POSIX system calls¶

This module provides access to operating system functionality that is
standardized by the C Standard and the POSIX standard (a thinly disguised Unix
interface).
Do not import this module directly.  Instead, import the module ,
which provides a portable version of this interface.  On Unix, the 
module provides a superset of the  interface.  On non-Unix operating
systems the  module is not available, but a subset is always
available through the  interface.  Once  is imported, there is
no performance penalty in using it instead of .  In addition,
 provides some additional functionality, such as automatically calling
 when an entry in  is changed.
Errors are reported as exceptions; the usual exceptions are given for type
errors, while errors reported by the system calls raise .

Large File Support¶
Several operating systems (including AIX, HP-UX, Irix and Solaris) provide
support for files that are larger than 2 GiB from a C programming model where
 and  are 32-bit values. This is typically accomplished
by defining the relevant size and offset types as 64-bit values. Such files are
sometimes referred to as large files.
Large file support is enabled in Python when the size of an  is
larger than a  and the  type is available and is
at least as large as an .
It may be necessary to configure and compile Python with certain compiler flags
to enable this mode. For example, it is enabled by default with recent versions
of Irix, but with Solaris 2.6 and 2.7 you need to do something like:


On large-file-capable Linux systems, this might work:




Notable Module Contents¶
In addition to many functions described in the  module documentation,
 defines the following data item:


¶
A dictionary representing the string environment at the time the interpreter
was started. Keys and values are bytes on Unix and str on Windows. For
example,  ( on Windows) is the
pathname of your home directory, equivalent to  in C.
Modifying this dictionary does not affect the string environment passed on by
,  or ; if you need to
change the environment, pass  to  or add
variable assignments and export statements to the command string for
 or .

Changed in version 3.2: On Unix, keys and values are bytes.


Note
The  module provides an alternate implementation of 
which updates the environment on modification. Note also that updating
 will render this dictionary obsolete. Use of the
 module version of this is recommended over direct access to the
 module.




