link:
library/termios.html#module-termios

docs:

 — POSIX style tty control¶

This module provides an interface to the POSIX calls for tty I/O control. For a
complete description of these calls, see termios(3) Unix manual
page.  It is only available for those Unix versions that support POSIX
termios style tty I/O control configured during installation.
All functions in this module take a file descriptor fd as their first
argument.  This can be an integer file descriptor, such as returned by
, or a file object, such as  itself.
This module also defines all the constants needed to work with the functions
provided here; these have the same name as their counterparts in C.  Please
refer to your system documentation for more information on using these terminal
control interfaces.
The module defines the following functions:


(fd)¶
Return a list containing the tty attributes for file descriptor fd, as
follows:  where cc is a
list of the tty special characters (each a string of length 1, except the
items with indices  and , which are integers when
these fields are defined).  The interpretation of the flags and the speeds as
well as the indexing in the cc array must be done using the symbolic
constants defined in the  module.



(fd, when, attributes)¶
Set the tty attributes for file descriptor fd from the attributes, which is
a list like the one returned by .  The when argument
determines when the attributes are changed:  to change
immediately,  to change after transmitting all queued output,
or  to change after transmitting all queued output and
discarding all queued input.



(fd, duration)¶
Send a break on file descriptor fd.  A zero duration sends a break for
0.25–0.5 seconds; a nonzero duration has a system dependent meaning.



(fd)¶
Wait until all output written to file descriptor fd has been transmitted.



(fd, queue)¶
Discard queued data on file descriptor fd.  The queue selector specifies
which queue:  for the input queue,  for the
output queue, or  for both queues.



(fd, action)¶
Suspend or resume input or output on file descriptor fd.  The action
argument can be  to suspend output,  to restart
output,  to suspend input, or  to restart input.


See also

Module 
Convenience functions for common terminal control operations.



Example¶
Here’s a function that prompts for a password with echoing turned off.  Note the
technique using a separate  call and a  …
 statement to ensure that the old tty attributes are restored
exactly no matter what happens:



