link:
library/syslog.html#module-syslog

docs:

 — Unix syslog library routines¶

This module provides an interface to the Unix  library routines.
Refer to the Unix manual pages for a detailed description of the 
facility.
This module wraps the system  family of routines.  A pure Python
library that can speak to a syslog server is available in the
 module as .
The module defines the following functions:


(message)¶

(priority, message)
Send the string message to the system logger.  A trailing newline is added
if necessary.  Each message is tagged with a priority composed of a
facility and a level.  The optional priority argument, which defaults
to , determines the message priority.  If the facility is
not encoded in priority using logical-or (), the
value given in the  call is used.
If  has not been called prior to the call to ,
 will be called with no arguments.



([ident[, logoption[, facility]]])¶
Logging options of subsequent  calls can be set by calling
.   will call  with no arguments
if the log is not currently open.
The optional ident keyword argument is a string which is prepended to every
message, and defaults to  with leading path components
stripped.  The optional logoption keyword argument (default is 0) is a bit
field – see below for possible values to combine.  The optional facility
keyword argument (default is ) sets the default facility for
messages which do not have a facility explicitly encoded.

Changed in version 3.2: In previous versions, keyword arguments were not allowed, and ident was
required.  The default for ident was dependent on the system libraries,
and often was  instead of the name of the Python program file.




()¶
Reset the syslog module values and call the system library .
This causes the module to behave as it does when initially imported.  For
example,  will be called on the first  call (if
 hasn’t already been called), and ident and other
 parameters are reset to defaults.



(maskpri)¶
Set the priority mask to maskpri and return the previous mask value.  Calls
to  with a priority level not set in maskpri are ignored.
The default is to log all priorities.  The function 
calculates the mask for the individual priority pri.  The function
 calculates the mask for all priorities up to and including
pri.

The module defines the following constants:

Priority levels (high to low):
, , , ,
, , ,
.
Facilities:
, , , ,
, , , ,
, ,  to
, and, if defined in ,
.
Log options:
, , , and, if defined
in , , , and
.


Examples¶

Simple example¶
A simple set of examples:


An example of setting some log options, these would include the process ID in
logged messages, and write the messages to the destination facility used for
mail logging:




