link:
library/collections.html#chainmap-objects

docs:

 objects¶

New in version 3.3.

A  class is provided for quickly linking a number of mappings
so they can be treated as a single unit.  It is often much faster than creating
a new dictionary and running multiple  calls.
The class can be used to simulate nested scopes and is useful in templating.


class (*maps)¶
A  groups multiple dicts or other mappings together to
create a single, updateable view.  If no maps are specified, a single empty
dictionary is provided so that a new chain always has at least one mapping.
The underlying mappings are stored in a list.  That list is public and can
be accessed or updated using the maps attribute.  There is no other state.
Lookups search the underlying mappings successively until a key is found.  In
contrast, writes, updates, and deletions only operate on the first mapping.
A  incorporates the underlying mappings by reference.  So, if
one of the underlying mappings gets updated, those changes will be reflected
in .
All of the usual dictionary methods are supported.  In addition, there is a
maps attribute, a method for creating new subcontexts, and a property for
accessing all but the first mapping:


¶
A user updateable list of mappings.  The list is ordered from
first-searched to last-searched.  It is the only stored state and can
be modified to change which mappings are searched.  The list should
always contain at least one mapping.



(m=None)¶
Returns a new  containing a new map followed by
all of the maps in the current instance.  If  is specified,
it becomes the new map at the front of the list of mappings; if not
specified, an empty dict is used, so that a call to 
is equivalent to: .  This method is used for
creating subcontexts that can be updated without altering values in any
of the parent mappings.

Changed in version 3.4: The optional  parameter was added.




¶
Property returning a new  containing all of the maps in
the current instance except the first one.  This is useful for skipping
the first map in the search.  Use cases are similar to those for the
 keyword used in nested scopes.  The use cases also parallel those for the built-in
 function.  A reference to  is equivalent to:
.

Note, the iteration order of a  is determined by
scanning the mappings last to first:


This gives the same ordering as a series of  calls
starting with the last mapping:




See also

The MultiContext class
in the Enthought CodeTools package has options to support
writing to any mapping in the chain.
Django’s Context class
for templating is a read-only chain of mappings.  It also features
pushing and popping of contexts similar to the
 method and the
 property.
The Nested Contexts recipe has options to control
whether writes and other mutations apply only to the first mapping or to
any mapping in the chain.
A greatly simplified read-only version of Chainmap.



 Examples and Recipes¶
This section shows various approaches to working with chained maps.
Example of simulating Python’s internal lookup chain:


Example of letting user specified command-line arguments take precedence over
environment variables which in turn take precedence over default values:


Example patterns for using the  class to simulate nested
contexts:


The  class only makes updates (writes and deletions) to the
first mapping in the chain while lookups will search the full chain.  However,
if deep writes and deletions are desired, it is easy to make a subclass that
updates keys found deeper in the chain:



