link:
library/pprint.html#module-pprint

docs:

 — Data pretty printer¶
Source code: Lib/pprint.py

The  module provides a capability to “pretty-print” arbitrary
Python data structures in a form which can be used as input to the interpreter.
If the formatted structures include objects which are not fundamental Python
types, the representation may not be loadable.  This may be the case if objects
such as files, sockets or classes are included, as well as many other
objects which are not representable as Python literals.
The formatted representation keeps objects on a single line if it can, and
breaks them onto multiple lines if they don’t fit within the allowed width.
Construct  objects explicitly if you need to adjust the
width constraint.
Dictionaries are sorted by key before the display is computed.
The  module defines one class:


class (indent=1, width=80, depth=None, stream=None, *, compact=False)¶
Construct a  instance.  This constructor understands
several keyword parameters.  An output stream may be set using the stream
keyword; the only method used on the stream object is the file protocol’s
 method.  If not specified, the  adopts
.  The
amount of indentation added for each recursive level is specified by indent;
the default is one.  Other values can cause output to look a little odd, but can
make nesting easier to spot.  The number of levels which may be printed is
controlled by depth; if the data structure being printed is too deep, the next
contained level is replaced by .  By default, there is no constraint on
the depth of the objects being formatted.  The desired output width is
constrained using the width parameter; the default is 80 characters.  If a
structure cannot be formatted within the constrained width, a best effort will
be made.  If compact is false (the default) each item of a long sequence
will be formatted on a separate line.  If compact is true, as many items
as will fit within the width will be formatted on each output line.

Changed in version 3.4: Added the compact parameter.




The  module also provides several shortcut functions:


(object, indent=1, width=80, depth=None, *, compact=False)¶
Return the formatted representation of object as a string.  indent,
width, depth and compact will be passed to the 
constructor as formatting parameters.

Changed in version 3.4: Added the compact parameter.




(object, stream=None, indent=1, width=80, depth=None, *, compact=False)¶
Prints the formatted representation of object on stream, followed by a
newline.  If stream is ,  is used.  This may be used
in the interactive interpreter instead of the  function for
inspecting values (you can even reassign  for use
within a scope).  indent, width, depth and compact will be passed
to the  constructor as formatting parameters.

Changed in version 3.4: Added the compact parameter.






(object)¶
Determine if the formatted representation of object is “readable,” or can be
used to reconstruct the value using .  This always returns 
for recursive objects.





(object)¶
Determine if object requires a recursive representation.

One more support function is also defined:


(object)¶
Return a string representation of object, protected against recursive data
structures.  If the representation of object exposes a recursive entry, the
recursive reference will be represented as .  The representation is not otherwise formatted.




PrettyPrinter Objects¶
 instances have the following methods:


(object)¶
Return the formatted representation of object.  This takes into account the
options passed to the  constructor.



(object)¶
Print the formatted representation of object on the configured stream,
followed by a newline.

The following methods provide the implementations for the corresponding
functions of the same names.  Using these methods on an instance is slightly
more efficient since new  objects don’t need to be
created.


(object)¶
Determine if the formatted representation of the object is “readable,” or can be
used to reconstruct the value using .  Note that this returns
 for recursive objects.  If the depth parameter of the
 is set and the object is deeper than allowed, this
returns .



(object)¶
Determine if the object requires a recursive representation.

This method is provided as a hook to allow subclasses to modify the way objects
are converted to strings.  The default implementation uses the internals of the
 implementation.


(object, context, maxlevels, level)¶
Returns three values: the formatted version of object as a string, a flag
indicating whether the result is readable, and a flag indicating whether
recursion was detected.  The first argument is the object to be presented.  The
second is a dictionary which contains the  of objects that are part of
the current presentation context (direct and indirect containers for object
that are affecting the presentation) as the keys; if an object needs to be
presented which is already represented in context, the third return value
should be .  Recursive calls to the  method should add
additional entries for containers to this dictionary.  The third argument,
maxlevels, gives the requested limit to recursion; this will be  if there
is no requested limit.  This argument should be passed unmodified to recursive
calls. The fourth argument, level, gives the current level; recursive calls
should be passed a value less than that of the current call.



Example¶
To demonstrate several uses of the  function and its parameters,
let’s fetch information about a project from PyPI:


In its basic form,  shows the whole object:


The result can be limited to a certain depth (ellipsis is used for deeper
contents):


Additionally, maximum character width can be suggested. If a long object
cannot be split, the specified width will be exceeded:



