link:
reference/import.html#packages

docs:

5.2. Packages¶
Python has only one type of module object, and all modules are of this type,
regardless of whether the module is implemented in Python, C, or something
else.  To help organize modules and provide a naming hierarchy, Python has a
concept of packages.
You can think of packages as the directories on a file system and modules as
files within directories, but don’t take this analogy too literally since
packages and modules need not originate from the file system.  For the
purposes of this documentation, we’ll use this convenient analogy of
directories and files.  Like file system directories, packages are organized
hierarchically, and packages may themselves contain subpackages, as well as
regular modules.
It’s important to keep in mind that all packages are modules, but not all
modules are packages.  Or put another way, packages are just a special kind of
module.  Specifically, any module that contains a  attribute is
considered a package.
All modules have a name.  Subpackage names are separated from their parent
package name by dots, akin to Python’s standard attribute access syntax.  Thus
you might have a module called  and a package called ,
which in turn has a subpackage called  and a module within
that subpackage called .

5.2.1. Regular packages¶
Python defines two types of packages, regular packages and namespace packages.  Regular
packages are traditional packages as they existed in Python 3.2 and earlier.
A regular package is typically implemented as a directory containing an
 file.  When a regular package is imported, this
 file is implicitly executed, and the objects it defines are
bound to names in the package’s namespace.  The  file can
contain the same Python code that any other module can contain, and Python
will add some additional attributes to the module when it is imported.
For example, the following file system layout defines a top level 
package with three subpackages:


Importing  will implicitly execute  and
.  Subsequent imports of  or
 will execute  and
 respectively.


5.2.2. Namespace packages¶
A namespace package is a composite of various portions,
where each portion contributes a subpackage to the parent package.  Portions
may reside in different locations on the file system.  Portions may also be
found in zip files, on the network, or anywhere else that Python searches
during import.  Namespace packages may or may not correspond directly to
objects on the file system; they may be virtual modules that have no concrete
representation.
Namespace packages do not use an ordinary list for their 
attribute. They instead use a custom iterable type which will automatically
perform a new search for package portions on the next import attempt within
that package if the path of their parent package (or  for a
top level package) changes.
With namespace packages, there is no  file.  In fact,
there may be multiple  directories found during import search, where
each one is provided by a different portion.  Thus  may not be
physically located next to .  In this case, Python will create a
namespace package for the top-level  package whenever it or one of
its subpackages is imported.
See also PEP 420 for the namespace package specification.

