link:
library/random.html#real-valued-distributions

docs:

Real-valued distributions¶
The following functions generate specific real-valued distributions. Function
parameters are named after the corresponding variables in the distribution’s
equation, as used in common mathematical practice; most of these equations can
be found in any statistics text.


()¶
Return the next random floating point number in the range [0.0, 1.0).



(a, b)¶
Return a random floating point number N such that  for
 and  for .
The end-point value  may or may not be included in the range
depending on floating-point rounding in the equation .



(low, high, mode)¶
Return a random floating point number N such that  and
with the specified mode between those bounds.  The low and high bounds
default to zero and one.  The mode argument defaults to the midpoint
between the bounds, giving a symmetric distribution.



(alpha, beta)¶
Beta distribution.  Conditions on the parameters are  and
. Returned values range between 0 and 1.



(lambd)¶
Exponential distribution.  lambd is 1.0 divided by the desired
mean.  It should be nonzero.  (The parameter would be called
“lambda”, but that is a reserved word in Python.)  Returned values
range from 0 to positive infinity if lambd is positive, and from
negative infinity to 0 if lambd is negative.



(alpha, beta)¶
Gamma distribution.  (Not the gamma function!)  Conditions on the
parameters are  and .
The probability distribution function is:





(mu, sigma)¶
Gaussian distribution.  mu is the mean, and sigma is the standard
deviation.  This is slightly faster than the  function
defined below.



(mu, sigma)¶
Log normal distribution.  If you take the natural logarithm of this
distribution, you’ll get a normal distribution with mean mu and standard
deviation sigma.  mu can have any value, and sigma must be greater than
zero.



(mu, sigma)¶
Normal distribution.  mu is the mean, and sigma is the standard deviation.



(mu, kappa)¶
mu is the mean angle, expressed in radians between 0 and 2*pi, and kappa
is the concentration parameter, which must be greater than or equal to zero.  If
kappa is equal to zero, this distribution reduces to a uniform random angle
over the range 0 to 2*pi.



(alpha)¶
Pareto distribution.  alpha is the shape parameter.



(alpha, beta)¶
Weibull distribution.  alpha is the scale parameter and beta is the shape
parameter.

