link:
library/functools.html#functools.lru_cache

docs:


(maxsize=128, typed=False)¶
Decorator to wrap a function with a memoizing callable that saves up to the
maxsize most recent calls.  It can save time when an expensive or I/O bound
function is periodically called with the same arguments.
Since a dictionary is used to cache results, the positional and keyword
arguments to the function must be hashable.
Distinct argument patterns may be considered to be distinct calls with
separate cache entries.  For example, f(a=1, b=2) and f(b=2, a=1)
differ in their keyword argument order and may have two separate cache
entries.
If maxsize is set to , the LRU feature is disabled and the cache can
grow without bound.  The LRU feature performs best when maxsize is a
power-of-two.
If typed is set to true, function arguments of different types will be
cached separately.  For example,  and  will be treated
as distinct calls with distinct results.
To help measure the effectiveness of the cache and tune the maxsize
parameter, the wrapped function is instrumented with a 
function that returns a named tuple showing hits, misses,
maxsize and currsize.  In a multi-threaded environment, the hits
and misses are approximate.
The decorator also provides a  function for clearing or
invalidating the cache.
The original underlying function is accessible through the
 attribute.  This is useful for introspection, for
bypassing the cache, or for rewrapping the function with a different cache.
An LRU (least recently used) cache works
best when the most recent calls are the best predictors of upcoming calls (for
example, the most popular articles on a news server tend to change each day).
The cache’s size limit assures that the cache does not grow without bound on
long-running processes such as web servers.
In general, the LRU cache should only be used when you want to reuse
previously computed values.  Accordingly, it doesn’t make sense to cache
functions with side-effects, functions that need to create distinct mutable
objects on each call, or impure functions such as time() or random().
Example of an LRU cache for static web content:


Example of efficiently computing
Fibonacci numbers
using a cache to implement a
dynamic programming
technique:



New in version 3.2.


Changed in version 3.3: Added the typed option.

