link:
library/sqlite3.html#sqlite3.Connection

docs:


class ¶
A SQLite database connection has the following attributes and methods:


¶
Get or set the current default isolation level.  for autocommit mode or
one of “DEFERRED”, “IMMEDIATE” or “EXCLUSIVE”. See section
Controlling Transactions for a more detailed explanation.



¶
 if a transaction is active (there are uncommitted changes),
 otherwise.  Read-only attribute.

New in version 3.2.




(factory=Cursor)¶
The cursor method accepts a single optional parameter factory. If
supplied, this must be a callable returning an instance of 
or its subclasses.



()¶
This method commits the current transaction. If you don’t call this method,
anything you did since the last call to  is not visible from
other database connections. If you wonder why you don’t see the data you’ve
written to the database, please check you didn’t forget to call this method.



()¶
This method rolls back any changes to the database since the last call to
.



()¶
This closes the database connection. Note that this does not automatically
call . If you just close your database connection without
calling  first, your changes will be lost!



(sql[, parameters])¶
This is a nonstandard shortcut that creates a cursor object by calling
the  method, calls the cursor’s
 method with the parameters given, and returns
the cursor.



(sql[, parameters])¶
This is a nonstandard shortcut that creates a cursor object by
calling the  method, calls the cursor’s
 method with the parameters given, and
returns the cursor.



(sql_script)¶
This is a nonstandard shortcut that creates a cursor object by
calling the  method, calls the cursor’s
 method with the given sql_script, and
returns the cursor.



(name, num_params, func)¶
Creates a user-defined function that you can later use from within SQL
statements under the function name name. num_params is the number of
parameters the function accepts (if num_params is -1, the function may
take any number of arguments), and func is a Python callable that is
called as the SQL function.
The function can return any of the types supported by SQLite: bytes, str, int,
float and .
Example:





(name, num_params, aggregate_class)¶
Creates a user-defined aggregate function.
The aggregate class must implement a  method, which accepts the number
of parameters num_params (if num_params is -1, the function may take
any number of arguments), and a  method which will return the
final result of the aggregate.
The  method can return any of the types supported by SQLite:
bytes, str, int, float and .
Example:





(name, callable)¶
Creates a collation with the specified name and callable. The callable will
be passed two string arguments. It should return -1 if the first is ordered
lower than the second, 0 if they are ordered equal and 1 if the first is ordered
higher than the second.  Note that this controls sorting (ORDER BY in SQL) so
your comparisons don’t affect other SQL operations.
Note that the callable will get its parameters as Python bytestrings, which will
normally be encoded in UTF-8.
The following example shows a custom collation that sorts “the wrong way”:


To remove a collation, call  with  as callable:





()¶
You can call this method from a different thread to abort any queries that might
be executing on the connection. The query will then abort and the caller will
get an exception.



(authorizer_callback)¶
This routine registers a callback. The callback is invoked for each attempt to
access a column of a table in the database. The callback should return
 if access is allowed,  if the entire SQL
statement should be aborted with an error and  if the
column should be treated as a NULL value. These constants are available in the
 module.
The first argument to the callback signifies what kind of operation is to be
authorized. The second and third argument will be arguments or 
depending on the first argument. The 4th argument is the name of the database
(“main”, “temp”, etc.) if applicable. The 5th argument is the name of the
inner-most trigger or view that is responsible for the access attempt or
 if this access attempt is directly from input SQL code.
Please consult the SQLite documentation about the possible values for the first
argument and the meaning of the second and third argument depending on the first
one. All necessary constants are available in the  module.



(handler, n)¶
This routine registers a callback. The callback is invoked for every n
instructions of the SQLite virtual machine. This is useful if you want to
get called from SQLite during long-running operations, for example to update
a GUI.
If you want to clear any previously installed progress handler, call the
method with  for handler.
Returning a non-zero value from the handler function will terminate the
currently executing query and cause it to raise an 
exception.



(trace_callback)¶
Registers trace_callback to be called for each SQL statement that is
actually executed by the SQLite backend.
The only argument passed to the callback is the statement (as string) that
is being executed. The return value of the callback is ignored. Note that
the backend does not only run statements passed to the 
methods.  Other sources include the transaction management of the Python
module and the execution of triggers defined in the current database.
Passing  as trace_callback will disable the trace callback.

New in version 3.3.




(enabled)¶
This routine allows/disallows the SQLite engine to load SQLite extensions
from shared libraries.  SQLite extensions can define new functions,
aggregates or whole new virtual table implementations.  One well-known
extension is the fulltext-search extension distributed with SQLite.
Loadable extensions are disabled by default. See [1].

New in version 3.2.






(path)¶
This routine loads a SQLite extension from a shared library.  You have to
enable extension loading with  before you can
use this routine.
Loadable extensions are disabled by default. See [1].

New in version 3.2.




¶
You can change this attribute to a callable that accepts the cursor and the
original row as a tuple and will return the real result row.  This way, you can
implement more advanced ways of returning results, such  as returning an object
that can also access columns by name.
Example:


If returning a tuple doesn’t suffice and you want name-based access to
columns, you should consider setting  to the
highly-optimized  type.  provides both
index-based and case-insensitive name-based access to columns with almost no
memory overhead. It will probably be better than your own custom
dictionary-based approach or even a db_row based solution.



¶
Using this attribute you can control what objects are returned for the 
data type. By default, this attribute is set to  and the
 module will return Unicode objects for . If you want to
return bytestrings instead, you can set it to .
You can also set it to any other callable that accepts a single bytestring
parameter and returns the resulting object.
See the following example code for illustration:





¶
Returns the total number of database rows that have been modified, inserted, or
deleted since the database connection was opened.



()¶
Returns an iterator to dump the database in an SQL text format.  Useful when
saving an in-memory database for later restoration.  This function provides
the same capabilities as the .dump command in the sqlite3
shell.
Example:





(target, *, pages=0, progress=None, name="main", sleep=0.250)¶
This method makes a backup of a SQLite database even while it’s being accessed
by other clients, or concurrently by the same connection.  The copy will be
written into the mandatory argument target, that must be another
 instance.
By default, or when pages is either  or a negative integer, the entire
database is copied in a single step; otherwise the method performs a loop
copying up to pages pages at a time.
If progress is specified, it must either be  or a callable object that
will be executed at each iteration with three integer arguments, respectively
the status of the last iteration, the remaining number of pages still to be
copied and the total number of pages.
The name argument specifies the database name that will be copied: it must be
a string containing either , the default, to indicate the main
database,  to indicate the temporary database or the name specified
after the  keyword in an  statement for an attached
database.
The sleep argument specifies the number of seconds to sleep by between
successive attempts to backup remaining pages, can be specified either as an
integer or a floating point value.
Example 1, copy an existing database into another:


Example 2, copy an existing database into a transient copy:


Availability: SQLite 3.6.11 or higher

New in version 3.7.


