link:
library/zipfile.html#zipfile.ZipFile

docs:


class (file, mode='r', compression=ZIP_STORED, allowZip64=True, compresslevel=None)¶
Open a ZIP file, where file can be a path to a file (a string), a
file-like object or a path-like object.
The mode parameter should be  to read an existing
file,  to truncate and write a new file,  to append to an
existing file, or  to exclusively create and write a new file.
If mode is  and file refers to an existing file,
a  will be raised.
If mode is  and file refers to an existing ZIP
file, then additional files are added to it.  If file does not refer to a
ZIP file, then a new ZIP archive is appended to the file.  This is meant for
adding a ZIP archive to another file (such as ).  If
mode is  and the file does not exist at all, it is created.
If mode is  or , the file should be seekable.
compression is the ZIP compression method to use when writing the archive,
and should be , ,
 or ; unrecognized
values will cause  to be raised.  If
,  or  is specified
but the corresponding module (,  or ) is not
available,  is raised. The default is .
If allowZip64 is  (the default) zipfile will create ZIP files that
use the ZIP64 extensions when the zipfile is larger than 4 GiB. If it is
  will raise an exception when the ZIP file would
require ZIP64 extensions.
The compresslevel parameter controls the compression level to use when
writing files to the archive.
When using  or  it has no effect.
When using  integers  through  are accepted
(see  for more information).
When using  integers  through  are accepted
(see  for more information).
If the file is created with mode ,  or  and then
 without adding any files to the archive, the appropriate
ZIP structures for an empty archive will be written to the file.
ZipFile is also a context manager and therefore supports the
 statement.  In the example, myzip is closed after the
 statement’s suite is finished—even if an exception occurs:



New in version 3.2: Added the ability to use  as a context manager.


Changed in version 3.3: Added support for  and  compression.


Changed in version 3.4: ZIP64 extensions are enabled by default.


Changed in version 3.5: Added support for writing to unseekable streams.
Added support for the  mode.


Changed in version 3.6: Previously, a plain  was raised for unrecognized
compression values.


Changed in version 3.6.2: The file parameter accepts a path-like object.


Changed in version 3.7: Add the compresslevel parameter.

