link:
library/tarfile.html#tarfile.open

docs:


(name=None, mode='r', fileobj=None, bufsize=10240, **kwargs)¶
Return a  object for the pathname name. For detailed
information on  objects and the keyword arguments that are
allowed, see TarFile Objects.
mode has to be a string of the form , it defaults
to . Here is a full list of mode combinations:






mode
action




Open for reading with transparent
compression (recommended).


Open for reading exclusively without
compression.


Open for reading with gzip compression.


Open for reading with bzip2 compression.


Open for reading with lzma compression.

 or

Create a tarfile exclusively without
compression.
Raise an  exception
if it already exists.


Create a tarfile with gzip compression.
Raise an  exception
if it already exists.


Create a tarfile with bzip2 compression.
Raise an  exception
if it already exists.


Create a tarfile with lzma compression.
Raise an  exception
if it already exists.


Open for appending with no compression. The
file is created if it does not exist.


Open for uncompressed writing.


Open for gzip compressed writing.


Open for bzip2 compressed writing.


Open for lzma compressed writing.



Note that ,  or  is not possible. If mode
is not suitable to open a certain (compressed) file for reading,
 is raised. Use mode  to avoid this.  If a
compression method is not supported,  is raised.
If fileobj is specified, it is used as an alternative to a file object
opened in binary mode for name. It is supposed to be at position 0.
For modes , , , , ,
,  accepts the keyword argument
compresslevel (default ) to specify the compression level of the file.
For special purposes, there is a second format for mode:
.   will return a 
object that processes its data as a stream of blocks.  No random seeking will
be done on the file. If given, fileobj may be any object that has a
 or  method (depending on the mode). bufsize
specifies the blocksize and defaults to  bytes. Use this variant
in combination with e.g. , a socket file object or a tape
device. However, such a  object is limited in that it does
not allow random access, see Examples.  The currently
possible modes:






Mode
Action




Open a stream of tar blocks for reading
with transparent compression.


Open a stream of uncompressed tar blocks
for reading.


Open a gzip compressed stream for
reading.


Open a bzip2 compressed stream for
reading.


Open an lzma compressed stream for
reading.


Open an uncompressed stream for writing.


Open a gzip compressed stream for
writing.


Open a bzip2 compressed stream for
writing.


Open an lzma compressed stream for
writing.




Changed in version 3.5: The  (exclusive creation) mode was added.


Changed in version 3.6: The name parameter accepts a path-like object.

