link:
library/xdrlib.html#packer-objects

docs:

Packer Objects¶
 instances have the following methods:


()¶
Returns the current pack buffer as a string.



()¶
Resets the pack buffer to the empty string.

In general, you can pack any of the most common XDR data types by calling the
appropriate  method.  Each method takes a single argument, the
value to pack.  The following simple data type packing methods are supported:
, , , ,
, and .


(value)¶
Packs the single-precision floating point number value.



(value)¶
Packs the double-precision floating point number value.

The following methods support packing strings, bytes, and opaque data:


(n, s)¶
Packs a fixed length string, s.  n is the length of the string but it is
not packed into the data buffer.  The string is padded with null bytes if
necessary to guaranteed 4 byte alignment.



(n, data)¶
Packs a fixed length opaque data stream, similarly to .



(s)¶
Packs a variable length string, s.  The length of the string is first packed
as an unsigned integer, then the string data is packed with
.



(data)¶
Packs a variable length opaque data string, similarly to .



(bytes)¶
Packs a variable length byte stream, similarly to .

The following methods support packing arrays and lists:


(list, pack_item)¶
Packs a list of homogeneous items.  This method is useful for lists with an
indeterminate size; i.e. the size is not available until the entire list has
been walked.  For each item in the list, an unsigned integer  is packed
first, followed by the data value from the list.  pack_item is the function
that is called to pack the individual item.  At the end of the list, an unsigned
integer  is packed.
For example, to pack a list of integers, the code might appear like this:





(n, array, pack_item)¶
Packs a fixed length list (array) of homogeneous items.  n is the length of
the list; it is not packed into the buffer, but a  exception
is raised if  is not equal to n.  As above, pack_item is the
function used to pack each element.



(list, pack_item)¶
Packs a variable length list of homogeneous items.  First, the length of the
list is packed as an unsigned integer, then each element is packed as in
 above.

