link:
library/os.html#os.scandir

docs:


(path='.')¶
Return an iterator of  objects corresponding to the
entries in the directory given by path. The entries are yielded in
arbitrary order, and the special entries  and  are not
included.
Using  instead of  can significantly
increase the performance of code that also needs file type or file
attribute information, because  objects expose this
information if the operating system provides it when scanning a directory.
All  methods may perform a system call, but
 and  usually only
require a system call for symbolic links; 
always requires a system call on Unix but only requires one for
symbolic links on Windows.
path may be a path-like object.  If path is of type 
(directly or indirectly through the  interface),
the type of the  and 
attributes of each  will be ; in all other
circumstances, they will be of type .
This function can also support specifying a file descriptor; the file descriptor must refer to a directory.
The  iterator supports the context manager protocol
and has the following method:


()¶
Close the iterator and free acquired resources.
This is called automatically when the iterator is exhausted or garbage
collected, or when an error happens during iterating.  However it
is advisable to call it explicitly or use the 
statement.

New in version 3.6.


The following example shows a simple use of  to display all
the files (excluding directories) in the given path that don’t start with
. The  call will generally not make an additional
system call:



Note
On Unix-based systems,  uses the system’s
opendir()
and
readdir()
functions. On Windows, it uses the Win32
FindFirstFileW
and
FindNextFileW
functions.


New in version 3.5.


New in version 3.6: Added support for the context manager protocol and the
 method.  If a  iterator is neither
exhausted nor explicitly closed a  will be emitted
in its destructor.
The function accepts a path-like object.


Changed in version 3.7: Added support for file descriptors on Unix.

