link:
library/os.html#os.walk

docs:


(top, topdown=True, onerror=None, followlinks=False)¶
Generate the file names in a directory tree by walking the tree
either top-down or bottom-up. For each directory in the tree rooted at directory
top (including top itself), it yields a 3-tuple .
dirpath is a string, the path to the directory.  dirnames is a list of the
names of the subdirectories in dirpath (excluding  and ).
filenames is a list of the names of the non-directory files in dirpath.
Note that the names in the lists contain no path components.  To get a full path
(which begins with top) to a file or directory in dirpath, do
.
If optional argument topdown is  or not specified, the triple for a
directory is generated before the triples for any of its subdirectories
(directories are generated top-down).  If topdown is , the triple
for a directory is generated after the triples for all of its subdirectories
(directories are generated bottom-up). No matter the value of topdown, the
list of subdirectories is retrieved before the tuples for the directory and
its subdirectories are generated.
When topdown is , the caller can modify the dirnames list in-place
(perhaps using  or slice assignment), and  will only
recurse into the subdirectories whose names remain in dirnames; this can be
used to prune the search, impose a specific order of visiting, or even to inform
 about directories the caller creates or renames before it resumes
 again.  Modifying dirnames when topdown is  has
no effect on the behavior of the walk, because in bottom-up mode the directories
in dirnames are generated before dirpath itself is generated.
By default, errors from the  call are ignored.  If optional
argument onerror is specified, it should be a function; it will be called with
one argument, an  instance.  It can report the error to continue
with the walk, or raise the exception to abort the walk.  Note that the filename
is available as the  attribute of the exception object.
By default,  will not walk down into symbolic links that resolve to
directories. Set followlinks to  to visit directories pointed to by
symlinks, on systems that support them.

Note
Be aware that setting followlinks to  can lead to infinite
recursion if a link points to a parent directory of itself. 
does not keep track of the directories it visited already.


Note
If you pass a relative pathname, don’t change the current working directory
between resumptions of .   never changes the current
directory, and assumes that its caller doesn’t either.

This example displays the number of bytes taken by non-directory files in each
directory under the starting directory, except that it doesn’t look under any
CVS subdirectory:


In the next example (simple implementation of ),
walking the tree bottom-up is essential,  doesn’t allow
deleting a directory before the directory is empty:



Changed in version 3.5: This function now calls  instead of ,
making it faster by reducing the number of calls to .


Changed in version 3.6: Accepts a path-like object.

