link:
library/os.html#interface-to-the-scheduler

docs:

Interface to the scheduler¶
These functions control how a process is allocated CPU time by the operating
system. They are only available on some Unix platforms. For more detailed
information, consult your Unix manpages.

New in version 3.3.

The following scheduling policies are exposed if they are supported by the
operating system.


¶
The default scheduling policy.



¶
Scheduling policy for CPU-intensive processes that tries to preserve
interactivity on the rest of the computer.



¶
Scheduling policy for extremely low priority background tasks.



¶
Scheduling policy for sporadic server programs.



¶
A First In First Out scheduling policy.



¶
A round-robin scheduling policy.



¶
This flag can be OR’ed with any other scheduling policy. When a process with
this flag set forks, its child’s scheduling policy and priority are reset to
the default.



class (sched_priority)¶
This class represents tunable scheduling parameters used in
, , and
. It is immutable.
At the moment, there is only one possible parameter:


¶
The scheduling priority for a scheduling policy.




(policy)¶
Get the minimum priority value for policy. policy is one of the
scheduling policy constants above.



(policy)¶
Get the maximum priority value for policy. policy is one of the
scheduling policy constants above.



(pid, policy, param)¶
Set the scheduling policy for the process with PID pid. A pid of 0 means
the calling process. policy is one of the scheduling policy constants
above. param is a  instance.



(pid)¶
Return the scheduling policy for the process with PID pid. A pid of 0
means the calling process. The result is one of the scheduling policy
constants above.



(pid, param)¶
Set a scheduling parameters for the process with PID pid. A pid of 0 means
the calling process. param is a  instance.



(pid)¶
Return the scheduling parameters as a  instance for the
process with PID pid. A pid of 0 means the calling process.



(pid)¶
Return the round-robin quantum in seconds for the process with PID pid. A
pid of 0 means the calling process.



()¶
Voluntarily relinquish the CPU.



(pid, mask)¶
Restrict the process with PID pid (or the current process if zero) to a
set of CPUs.  mask is an iterable of integers representing the set of
CPUs to which the process should be restricted.



(pid)¶
Return the set of CPUs the process with PID pid (or the current process
if zero) is restricted to.

