link:
library/os.html#random-numbers

docs:

Random numbers¶


(size, flags=0)¶
Get up to size random bytes. The function can return less bytes than
requested.
These bytes can be used to seed user-space random number generators or for
cryptographic purposes.
 relies on entropy gathered from device drivers and other
sources of environmental noise. Unnecessarily reading large quantities of
data will have a negative impact on  other users  of the  and
 devices.
The flags argument is a bit mask that can contain zero or more of the
following values ORed together:  and
.
See also the Linux getrandom() manual page.
Availability: Linux 3.17 and newer.

New in version 3.6.




(size)¶
Return a string of size random bytes suitable for cryptographic use.
This function returns random bytes from an OS-specific randomness source.  The
returned data should be unpredictable enough for cryptographic applications,
though its exact quality depends on the OS implementation.
On Linux, if the  syscall is available, it is used in
blocking mode: block until the system urandom entropy pool is initialized
(128 bits of entropy are collected by the kernel). See the PEP 524 for
the rationale. On Linux, the  function can be used to get
random bytes in non-blocking mode (using the  flag) or
to poll until the system urandom entropy pool is initialized.
On a Unix-like system, random bytes are read from the 
device. If the  device is not available or not readable, the
 exception is raised.
On Windows, it will use .

See also
The  module provides higher level functions. For an
easy-to-use interface to the random number generator provided by your
platform, please see .


Changed in version 3.6.0: On Linux,  is now used in blocking mode to increase the
security.


Changed in version 3.5.2: On Linux, if the  syscall blocks (the urandom entropy pool
is not initialized yet), fall back on reading .


Changed in version 3.5: On Linux 3.17 and newer, the  syscall is now used
when available.  On OpenBSD 5.6 and newer, the C 
function is now used. These functions avoid the usage of an internal file
descriptor.




¶
By  default, when reading from ,  blocks if
no random bytes are available, and when reading from , it blocks
if the entropy pool has not yet been initialized.
If the  flag is set, then  does not
block in these cases, but instead immediately raises .

New in version 3.6.




¶
If  this  bit  is  set,  then  random bytes are drawn from the
 pool instead of the  pool.

New in version 3.6.


