link:
library/io.html#io.TextIOWrapper

docs:


class (buffer, encoding=None, errors=None, newline=None, line_buffering=False, write_through=False)¶
A buffered text stream over a  binary stream.
It inherits .
encoding gives the name of the encoding that the stream will be decoded or
encoded with.  It defaults to
.
errors is an optional string that specifies how encoding and decoding
errors are to be handled.  Pass  to raise a 
exception if there is an encoding error (the default of  has the same
effect), or pass  to ignore errors.  (Note that ignoring encoding
errors can lead to data loss.)   causes a replacement marker
(such as ) to be inserted where there is malformed data.
 causes malformed data to be replaced by a
backslashed escape sequence.  When writing, 
(replace with the appropriate XML character reference)  or 
(replace with  escape sequences) can be used.  Any other error
handling name that has been registered with
 is also valid.
newline controls how line endings are handled.  It can be ,
, , , and .  It works as follows:

When reading input from the stream, if newline is ,
universal newlines mode is enabled.  Lines in the input can end in
, , or , and these are translated into 
before being returned to the caller.  If it is , universal newlines
mode is enabled, but line endings are returned to the caller untranslated.
If it has any of the other legal values, input lines are only terminated
by the given string, and the line ending is returned to the caller
untranslated.
When writing output to the stream, if newline is , any 
characters written are translated to the system default line separator,
.  If newline is  or , no translation
takes place.  If newline is any of the other legal values, any 
characters written are translated to the given string.

If line_buffering is ,  is implied when a call to
write contains a newline character or a carriage return.
If write_through is , calls to  are guaranteed
not to be buffered: any data written on the 
object is immediately handled to its underlying binary buffer.

Changed in version 3.3: The write_through argument has been added.


Changed in version 3.3: The default encoding is now 
instead of . Don’t change temporary the
locale encoding using , use the current locale
encoding instead of the user preferred encoding.

 provides these members in addition to those of
 and its parents:


¶
Whether line buffering is enabled.



¶
Whether writes are passed immediately to the underlying binary
buffer.

New in version 3.7.




(*[, encoding][, errors][, newline][,                      line_buffering][, write_through])¶
Reconfigure this text stream using new settings for encoding,
errors, newline, line_buffering and write_through.
Parameters not specified keep current settings, except
 is used when encoding is specified but
errors is not specified.
It is not possible to change the encoding or newline if some data
has already been read from the stream. On the other hand, changing
encoding after write is possible.
This method does an implicit stream flush before setting the
new parameters.

New in version 3.7.


