link:
library/functions.html#super

docs:


([type[, object-or-type]])¶
Return a proxy object that delegates method calls to a parent or sibling
class of type.  This is useful for accessing inherited methods that have
been overridden in a class. The search order is same as that used by
 except that the type itself is skipped.
The  attribute of the type lists the method
resolution search order used by both  and .  The
attribute is dynamic and can change whenever the inheritance hierarchy is
updated.
If the second argument is omitted, the super object returned is unbound.  If
the second argument is an object,  must be true.  If
the second argument is a type,  must be true (this
is useful for classmethods).
There are two typical use cases for super.  In a class hierarchy with
single inheritance, super can be used to refer to parent classes without
naming them explicitly, thus making the code more maintainable.  This use
closely parallels the use of super in other programming languages.
The second use case is to support cooperative multiple inheritance in a
dynamic execution environment.  This use case is unique to Python and is
not found in statically compiled languages or languages that only support
single inheritance.  This makes it possible to implement “diamond diagrams”
where multiple base classes implement the same method.  Good design dictates
that this method have the same calling signature in every case (because the
order of calls is determined at runtime, because that order adapts
to changes in the class hierarchy, and because that order can include
sibling classes that are unknown prior to runtime).
For both use cases, a typical superclass call looks like this:


Note that  is implemented as part of the binding process for
explicit dotted attribute lookups such as .
It does so by implementing its own  method for searching
classes in a predictable order that supports cooperative multiple inheritance.
Accordingly,  is undefined for implicit lookups using statements or
operators such as .
Also note that, aside from the zero argument form,  is not
limited to use inside methods.  The two argument form specifies the
arguments exactly and makes the appropriate references.  The zero
argument form only works inside a class definition, as the compiler fills
in the necessary details to correctly retrieve the class being defined,
as well as accessing the current instance for ordinary methods.
For practical suggestions on how to design cooperative classes using
, see guide to using super().
