link:
library/logging.handlers.html#sockethandler

docs:

SocketHandler¶
The  class, located in the  module,
sends logging output to a network socket. The base class uses a TCP socket.


class (host, port)¶
Returns a new instance of the  class intended to
communicate with a remote machine whose address is given by host and port.

Changed in version 3.4: If  is specified as , a Unix domain socket is created
using the value in  - otherwise, a TCP socket is created.



()¶
Closes the socket.



()¶
Pickles the record’s attribute dictionary and writes it to the socket in
binary format. If there is an error with the socket, silently drops the
packet. If the connection was previously lost, re-establishes the
connection. To unpickle the record at the receiving end into a
, use the 
function.



()¶
Handles an error which has occurred during . The most likely
cause is a lost connection. Closes the socket so that we can retry on the
next event.



()¶
This is a factory method which allows subclasses to define the precise
type of socket they want. The default implementation creates a TCP socket
().



(record)¶
Pickles the record’s attribute dictionary in binary format with a length
prefix, and returns it ready for transmission across the socket.
Note that pickles aren’t completely secure. If you are concerned about
security, you may want to override this method to implement a more secure
mechanism. For example, you can sign pickles using HMAC and then verify
them on the receiving end, or alternatively you can disable unpickling of
global objects on the receiving end.



(packet)¶
Send a pickled string packet to the socket. This function allows for
partial sends which can happen when the network is busy.



()¶
Tries to create a socket; on failure, uses an exponential back-off
algorithm.  On initial failure, the handler will drop the message it was
trying to send.  When subsequent messages are handled by the same
instance, it will not try connecting until some time has passed.  The
default parameters are such that the initial delay is one second, and if
after that delay the connection still can’t be made, the handler will
double the delay each time up to a maximum of 30 seconds.
This behaviour is controlled by the following handler attributes:

 (initial delay, defaulting to 1.0 seconds).
 (multiplier, defaulting to 2.0).
 (maximum delay, defaulting to 30.0 seconds).

This means that if the remote listener starts up after the handler has
been used, you could lose messages (since the handler won’t even attempt
a connection until the delay has elapsed, but just silently drop messages
during the delay period).


