link:
library/curses.html#module-curses.textpad

docs:

 — Text input widget for curses programs¶
The  module provides a  class that handles
elementary text editing in a curses window, supporting a set of keybindings
resembling those of Emacs (thus, also of Netscape Navigator, BBedit 6.x,
FrameMaker, and many other programs).  The module also provides a
rectangle-drawing function useful for framing text boxes or for other purposes.
The module  defines the following function:


(win, uly, ulx, lry, lrx)¶
Draw a rectangle.  The first argument must be a window object; the remaining
arguments are coordinates relative to that window.  The second and third
arguments are the y and x coordinates of the upper left hand corner of the
rectangle to be drawn; the fourth and fifth arguments are the y and x
coordinates of the lower right hand corner. The rectangle will be drawn using
VT100/IBM PC forms characters on terminals that make this possible (including
xterm and most other software terminal emulators).  Otherwise it will be drawn
with ASCII  dashes, vertical bars, and plus signs.


Textbox objects¶
You can instantiate a  object as follows:


class (win)¶
Return a textbox widget object.  The win argument should be a curses
window object in which the textbox is to
be contained. The edit cursor of the textbox is initially located at the
upper left hand corner of the containing window, with coordinates .
The instance’s  flag is initially on.
 objects have the following methods:


([validator])¶
This is the entry point you will normally use.  It accepts editing
keystrokes until one of the termination keystrokes is entered.  If
validator is supplied, it must be a function.  It will be called for
each keystroke entered with the keystroke as a parameter; command dispatch
is done on the result. This method returns the window contents as a
string; whether blanks in the window are included is affected by the
 attribute.



(ch)¶
Process a single command keystroke.  Here are the supported special
keystrokes:






Keystroke
Action



Control-A
Go to left edge of window.

Control-B
Cursor left, wrapping to previous line if
appropriate.

Control-D
Delete character under cursor.

Control-E
Go to right edge (stripspaces off) or end
of line (stripspaces on).

Control-F
Cursor right, wrapping to next line when
appropriate.

Control-G
Terminate, returning the window contents.

Control-H
Delete character backward.

Control-J
Terminate if the window is 1 line,
otherwise insert newline.

Control-K
If line is blank, delete it, otherwise
clear to end of line.

Control-L
Refresh screen.

Control-N
Cursor down; move down one line.

Control-O
Insert a blank line at cursor location.

Control-P
Cursor up; move up one line.



Move operations do nothing if the cursor is at an edge where the movement
is not possible.  The following synonyms are supported where possible:






Constant
Keystroke




Control-B


Control-F


Control-P


Control-N


Control-h



All other keystrokes are treated as a command to insert the given
character and move right (with line wrapping).



()¶
Return the window contents as a string; whether blanks in the
window are included is affected by the  member.



¶
This attribute is a flag which controls the interpretation of blanks in
the window.  When it is on, trailing blanks on each line are ignored; any
cursor motion that would land the cursor on a trailing blank goes to the
end of that line instead, and trailing blanks are stripped when the window
contents are gathered.



