link:
library/stdtypes.html#iterator-types

docs:

Iterator Types¶
Python supports a concept of iteration over containers.  This is implemented
using two distinct methods; these are used to allow user-defined classes to
support iteration.  Sequences, described below in more detail, always support
the iteration methods.
One method needs to be defined for container objects to provide iteration
support:


()¶
Return an iterator object.  The object is required to support the iterator
protocol described below.  If a container supports different types of
iteration, additional methods can be provided to specifically request
iterators for those iteration types.  (An example of an object supporting
multiple forms of iteration would be a tree structure which supports both
breadth-first and depth-first traversal.)  This method corresponds to the
 slot of the type structure for Python objects in the Python/C
API.

The iterator objects themselves are required to support the following two
methods, which together form the iterator protocol:


()¶
Return the iterator object itself.  This is required to allow both containers
and iterators to be used with the  and  statements.
This method corresponds to the  slot of the type structure for
Python objects in the Python/C API.



()¶
Return the next item from the container.  If there are no further items, raise
the  exception.  This method corresponds to the
 slot of the type structure for Python objects in the
Python/C API.

Python defines several iterator objects to support iteration over general and
specific sequence types, dictionaries, and other more specialized forms.  The
specific types are not important beyond their implementation of the iterator
protocol.
Once an iterator’s  method raises
, it must continue to do so on subsequent calls.
Implementations that do not obey this property are deemed broken.

Generator Types¶
Python’s generators provide a convenient way to implement the iterator
protocol.  If a container object’s  method is implemented as a
generator, it will automatically return an iterator object (technically, a
generator object) supplying the  and 
methods.
More information about generators can be found in the documentation for
the yield expression.

