link:
library/multiprocessing.html#module-multiprocessing.sharedctypes

docs:

The  module¶
The  module provides functions for allocating
 objects from shared memory which can be inherited by child
processes.

Note
Although it is possible to store a pointer in shared memory remember that
this will refer to a location in the address space of a specific process.
However, the pointer is quite likely to be invalid in the context of a second
process and trying to dereference the pointer from the second process may
cause a crash.



(typecode_or_type, size_or_initializer)¶
Return a ctypes array allocated from shared memory.
typecode_or_type determines the type of the elements of the returned array:
it is either a ctypes type or a one character typecode of the kind used by
the  module.  If size_or_initializer is an integer then it
determines the length of the array, and the array will be initially zeroed.
Otherwise size_or_initializer is a sequence which is used to initialize the
array and whose length determines the length of the array.
Note that setting and getting an element is potentially non-atomic – use
 instead to make sure that access is automatically synchronized
using a lock.



(typecode_or_type, *args)¶
Return a ctypes object allocated from shared memory.
typecode_or_type determines the type of the returned object: it is either a
ctypes type or a one character typecode of the kind used by the 
module.  *args is passed on to the constructor for the type.
Note that setting and getting the value is potentially non-atomic – use
 instead to make sure that access is automatically synchronized
using a lock.
Note that an array of  has  and 
attributes which allow one to use it to store and retrieve strings – see
documentation for .



(typecode_or_type, size_or_initializer, *, lock=True)¶
The same as  except that depending on the value of lock a
process-safe synchronization wrapper may be returned instead of a raw ctypes
array.
If lock is  (the default) then a new lock object is created to
synchronize access to the value.  If lock is a
 or  object
then that will be used to synchronize access to the
value.  If lock is  then access to the returned object will not be
automatically protected by a lock, so it will not necessarily be
“process-safe”.
Note that lock is a keyword-only argument.



(typecode_or_type, *args, lock=True)¶
The same as  except that depending on the value of lock a
process-safe synchronization wrapper may be returned instead of a raw ctypes
object.
If lock is  (the default) then a new lock object is created to
synchronize access to the value.  If lock is a  or
 object then that will be used to synchronize access to the
value.  If lock is  then access to the returned object will not be
automatically protected by a lock, so it will not necessarily be
“process-safe”.
Note that lock is a keyword-only argument.



(obj)¶
Return a ctypes object allocated from shared memory which is a copy of the
ctypes object obj.



(obj[, lock])¶
Return a process-safe wrapper object for a ctypes object which uses lock to
synchronize access.  If lock is  (the default) then a
 object is created automatically.
A synchronized wrapper will have two methods in addition to those of the
object it wraps:  returns the wrapped object and
 returns the lock object used for synchronization.
Note that accessing the ctypes object through the wrapper can be a lot slower
than accessing the raw ctypes object.

Changed in version 3.5: Synchronized objects support the context manager protocol.


The table below compares the syntax for creating shared ctypes objects from
shared memory with the normal ctypes syntax.  (In the table  is some
subclass of .)







ctypes
sharedctypes using type
sharedctypes using typecode



c_double(2.4)
RawValue(c_double, 2.4)
RawValue(‘d’, 2.4)

MyStruct(4, 6)
RawValue(MyStruct, 4, 6)
 

(c_short * 7)()
RawArray(c_short, 7)
RawArray(‘h’, 7)

(c_int * 3)(9, 2, 8)
RawArray(c_int, (9, 2, 8))
RawArray(‘i’, (9, 2, 8))



Below is an example where a number of ctypes objects are modified by a child
process:


The results printed are


