link:
library/multiprocessing.html#multiprocessing.managers.BaseManager

docs:


class ([address[, authkey]])¶
Create a BaseManager object.
Once created one should call  or  to ensure
that the manager object refers to a started manager process.
address is the address on which the manager process listens for new
connections.  If address is  then an arbitrary one is chosen.
authkey is the authentication key which will be used to check the
validity of incoming connections to the server process.  If
authkey is  then  is used.
Otherwise authkey is used and it must be a byte string.


([initializer[, initargs]])¶
Start a subprocess to start the manager.  If initializer is not 
then the subprocess will call  when it starts.



()¶
Returns a  object which represents the actual server under
the control of the Manager. The  object supports the
 method:


 additionally has an  attribute.



()¶
Connect a local manager object to a remote manager process:





()¶
Stop the process used by the manager.  This is only available if
 has been used to start the server process.
This can be called multiple times.



(typeid[, callable[, proxytype[, exposed[, method_to_typeid[, create_method]]]]])¶
A classmethod which can be used for registering a type or callable with
the manager class.
typeid is a “type identifier” which is used to identify a particular
type of shared object.  This must be a string.
callable is a callable used for creating objects for this type
identifier.  If a manager instance will be connected to the
server using the  method, or if the
create_method argument is  then this can be left as
.
proxytype is a subclass of  which is used to create
proxies for shared objects with this typeid.  If  then a proxy
class is created automatically.
exposed is used to specify a sequence of method names which proxies for
this typeid should be allowed to access using
.  (If exposed is  then
 is used instead if it exists.)  In the case
where no exposed list is specified, all “public methods” of the shared
object will be accessible.  (Here a “public method” means any attribute
which has a  method and whose name does not begin
with .)
method_to_typeid is a mapping used to specify the return type of those
exposed methods which should return a proxy.  It maps method names to
typeid strings.  (If method_to_typeid is  then
 is used instead if it exists.)  If a
method’s name is not a key of this mapping or if the mapping is 
then the object returned by the method will be copied by value.
create_method determines whether a method should be created with name
typeid which can be used to tell the server process to create a new
shared object and return a proxy for it.  By default it is .

 instances also have one read-only property:


¶
The address used by the manager.


Changed in version 3.3: Manager objects support the context management protocol – see
Context Manager Types.   starts the
server process (if it has not already started) and then returns the
manager object.   calls .
In previous versions  did not start the
manager’s server process if it was not already started.

