link:
library/asyncio-protocol.html#protocols

docs:

Protocols¶
asyncio provides a set of abstract base classes that should be used
to implement network protocols.  Those classes are meant to be used
together with transports.
Subclasses of abstract base protocol classes may implement some or
all methods.  All these methods are callbacks: they are called by
transports on certain events, for example when some data is received.
A base protocol method should be called by the corresponding transport.

Base Protocols¶


class ¶
Base protocol with methods that all protocols share.



class (BaseProtocol)¶
The base class for implementing streaming protocols
(TCP, Unix sockets, etc).



class (BaseProtocol)¶
A base class for implementing streaming protocols with manual
control of the receive buffer.



class (BaseProtocol)¶
The base class for implementing datagram (UDP) protocols.



class (BaseProtocol)¶
The base class for implementing protocols communicating with child
processes (unidirectional pipes).



Base Protocol¶
All asyncio protocols can implement Base Protocol callbacks.
Connection Callbacks
Connection callbacks are called on all protocols, exactly once per
a successful connection.  All other protocol callbacks can only be
called between those two methods.


(transport)¶
Called when a connection is made.
The transport argument is the transport representing the
connection.  The protocol is responsible for storing the reference
to its transport.



(exc)¶
Called when the connection is lost or closed.
The argument is either an exception object or .
The latter means a regular EOF is received, or the connection was
aborted or closed by this side of the connection.

Flow Control Callbacks
Flow control callbacks can be called by transports to pause or
resume writing performed by the protocol.
See the documentation of the 
method for more details.


()¶
Called when the transport’s buffer goes over the high watermark.



()¶
Called when the transport’s buffer drains below the low watermark.

If the buffer size equals the high watermark,
 is not called: the buffer size must
go strictly over.
Conversely,  is called when the
buffer size is equal or lower than the low watermark.  These end
conditions are important to ensure that things go as expected when
either mark is zero.


Streaming Protocols¶
Event methods, such as ,
, ,
, ,
, and 
accept factories that return streaming protocols.


(data)¶
Called when some data is received.  data is a non-empty bytes
object containing the incoming data.
Whether the data is buffered, chunked or reassembled depends on
the transport.  In general, you shouldn’t rely on specific semantics
and instead make your parsing generic and flexible. However,
data is always received in the correct order.
The method can be called an arbitrary number of times while
a connection is open.
However, 
is called at most once.  Once eof_received() is called,
 is not called anymore.



()¶
Called when the other end signals it won’t send any more data
(for example by calling , if the other end also uses
asyncio).
This method may return a false value (including ), in which case
the transport will close itself.  Conversely, if this method returns a
true value, the protocol used determines whether to close the transport.
Since the default implementation returns , it implicitly closes the
connection.
Some transports, including SSL, don’t support half-closed connections,
in which case returning true from this method will result in the connection
being closed.

State machine:




Buffered Streaming Protocols¶

New in version 3.7: Important: this has been added to asyncio in Python 3.7
on a provisional basis!  This is as an experimental API that
might be changed or removed completely in Python 3.8.

Buffered Protocols can be used with any event loop method
that supports Streaming Protocols.
 implementations allow explicit manual allocation
and control of the receive buffer.  Event loops can then use the buffer
provided by the protocol to avoid unnecessary data copies.  This
can result in noticeable performance improvement for protocols that
receive big amounts of data.  Sophisticated protocol implementations
can significantly reduce the number of buffer allocations.
The following callbacks are called on 
instances:


(sizehint)¶
Called to allocate a new receive buffer.
sizehint is the recommended minimum size for the returned
buffer.  It is acceptable to return smaller or larger buffers
than what sizehint suggests.  When set to -1, the buffer size
can be arbitrary. It is an error to return a buffer with a zero size.
 must return an object implementing the
buffer protocol.



(nbytes)¶
Called when the buffer was updated with the received data.
nbytes is the total number of bytes that were written to the buffer.



()¶
See the documentation of the  method.

 can be called an arbitrary number
of times during a connection.  However,  is called at most once
and, if called,  and
 won’t be called after it.
State machine:




Datagram Protocols¶
Datagram Protocol instances should be constructed by protocol
factories passed to the  method.


(data, addr)¶
Called when a datagram is received.  data is a bytes object containing
the incoming data.  addr is the address of the peer sending the data;
the exact format depends on the transport.



(exc)¶
Called when a previous send or receive operation raises an
.  exc is the  instance.
This method is called in rare conditions, when the transport (e.g. UDP)
detects that a datagram could not be delivered to its recipient.
In many conditions though, undeliverable datagrams will be silently
dropped.


Note
On BSD systems (macOS, FreeBSD, etc.) flow control is not supported
for datagram protocols, because there is no reliable way to detect send
failures caused by writing too many packets.
The socket always appears ‘ready’ and excess packets are dropped. An
 with  set to  may
or may not be raised; if it is raised, it will be reported to
 but otherwise ignored.



Subprocess Protocols¶
Datagram Protocol instances should be constructed by protocol
factories passed to the  and
 methods.


(fd, data)¶
Called when the child process writes data into its stdout or stderr
pipe.
fd is the integer file descriptor of the pipe.
data is a non-empty bytes object containing the received data.



(fd, exc)¶
Called when one of the pipes communicating with the child process
is closed.
fd is the integer file descriptor that was closed.



()¶
Called when the child process has exited.


