link:
reference/introduction.html#notation

docs:

1.2. Notation¶
The descriptions of lexical analysis and syntax use a modified BNF grammar
notation.  This uses the following style of definition:

The first line says that a  is an  followed by a sequence
of zero or more s and underscores.  An  in turn is
any of the single characters  through .  (This rule is actually
adhered to for the names defined in lexical and grammar rules in this document.)
Each rule begins with a name (which is the name defined by the rule) and
.  A vertical bar () is used to separate alternatives; it is the
least binding operator in this notation.  A star () means zero or more
repetitions of the preceding item; likewise, a plus () means one or more
repetitions, and a phrase enclosed in square brackets () means zero or
one occurrences (in other words, the enclosed phrase is optional).  The 
and  operators bind as tightly as possible; parentheses are used for
grouping.  Literal strings are enclosed in quotes.  White space is only
meaningful to separate tokens. Rules are normally contained on a single line;
rules with many alternatives may be formatted alternatively with each line after
the first beginning with a vertical bar.
In lexical definitions (as the example above), two more conventions are used:
Two literal characters separated by three dots mean a choice of any single
character in the given (inclusive) range of ASCII characters.  A phrase between
angular brackets () gives an informal description of the symbol
defined; e.g., this could be used to describe the notion of ‘control character’
if needed.
Even though the notation used is almost the same, there is a big difference
between the meaning of lexical and syntactic definitions: a lexical definition
operates on the individual characters of the input source, while a syntax
definition operates on the stream of tokens generated by the lexical analysis.
All uses of BNF in the next chapter (“Lexical Analysis”) are lexical
definitions; uses in subsequent chapters are syntactic definitions.
