link:
library/socket.html#functions

docs:

Functions¶

Creating sockets¶
The following functions all create socket objects.


(family=AF_INET, type=SOCK_STREAM, proto=0, fileno=None)¶
Create a new socket using the given address family, socket type and protocol
number.  The address family should be  (the default),
, , , ,
or . The socket type should be  (the
default), ,  or perhaps one of the other
 constants. The protocol number is usually zero and may be omitted
or in the case where the address family is  the protocol
should be one of ,  or .
If fileno is specified, the values for family, type, and proto are
auto-detected from the specified file descriptor.  Auto-detection can be
overruled by calling the function with explicit family, type, or proto
arguments.  This only affects how Python represents e.g. the return value
of  but not the actual OS resource.  Unlike
, fileno will return the same socket and not a
duplicate. This may help close a detached socket using
.
The newly created socket is non-inheritable.

Changed in version 3.3: The AF_CAN family was added.
The AF_RDS family was added.


Changed in version 3.4: The CAN_BCM protocol was added.


Changed in version 3.4: The returned socket is now non-inheritable.


Changed in version 3.7: The CAN_ISOTP protocol was added.


Changed in version 3.7: When  or 
bit flags are applied to type they are cleared, and
 will not reflect them.  They are still passed
to the underlying system socket() call.  Therefore::


sock = socket.socket(
socket.AF_INET,
socket.SOCK_STREAM | socket.SOCK_NONBLOCK)


will still create a non-blocking socket on OSes that support
, but  will be set to
.




([family[, type[, proto]]])¶
Build a pair of connected socket objects using the given address family, socket
type, and protocol number.  Address family, socket type, and protocol number are
as for the  function above. The default family is 
if defined on the platform; otherwise, the default is .
The newly created sockets are non-inheritable.

Changed in version 3.2: The returned socket objects now support the whole socket API, rather
than a subset.


Changed in version 3.4: The returned sockets are now non-inheritable.


Changed in version 3.5: Windows support added.




(address[, timeout[, source_address]])¶
Connect to a TCP service listening on the Internet address (a 2-tuple
), and return the socket object.  This is a higher-level
function than : if host is a non-numeric hostname,
it will try to resolve it for both  and ,
and then try to connect to all possible addresses in turn until a
connection succeeds.  This makes it easy to write clients that are
compatible to both IPv4 and IPv6.
Passing the optional timeout parameter will set the timeout on the
socket instance before attempting to connect.  If no timeout is
supplied, the global default timeout setting returned by
 is used.
If supplied, source_address must be a 2-tuple  for the
socket to bind to as its source address before connecting.  If host or port
are ‘’ or 0 respectively the OS default behavior will be used.

Changed in version 3.2: source_address was added.




(fd, family, type, proto=0)¶
Duplicate the file descriptor fd (an integer as returned by a file object’s
 method) and build a socket object from the result.  Address
family, socket type and protocol number are as for the  function
above. The file descriptor should refer to a socket, but this is not checked —
subsequent operations on the object may fail if the file descriptor is invalid.
This function is rarely needed, but can be used to get or set socket options on
a socket passed to a program as standard input or output (such as a server
started by the Unix inet daemon).  The socket is assumed to be in blocking mode.
The newly created socket is non-inheritable.

Changed in version 3.4: The returned socket is now non-inheritable.




(data)¶
Instantiate a socket from data obtained from the 
method.  The socket is assumed to be in blocking mode.
Availability: Windows.

New in version 3.3.




¶
This is a Python type object that represents the socket object type. It is the
same as .



Other functions¶
The  module also offers various network-related services:


(fd)¶
Close a socket file descriptor. This is like , but for
sockets. On some platforms (most noticeable Windows) 
does not work for socket file descriptors.

New in version 3.7.




(host, port, family=0, type=0, proto=0, flags=0)¶
Translate the host/port argument into a sequence of 5-tuples that contain
all the necessary arguments for creating a socket connected to that service.
host is a domain name, a string representation of an IPv4/v6 address
or . port is a string service name such as , a numeric
port number or .  By passing  as the value of host
and port, you can pass  to the underlying C API.
The family, type and proto arguments can be optionally specified
in order to narrow the list of addresses returned.  Passing zero as a
value for each of these arguments selects the full range of results.
The flags argument can be one or several of the  constants,
and will influence how results are computed and returned.
For example,  will disable domain name resolution
and will raise an error if host is a domain name.
The function returns a list of 5-tuples with the following structure:

In these tuples, family, type, proto are all integers and are
meant to be passed to the  function.  canonname will be
a string representing the canonical name of the host if
 is part of the flags argument; else canonname
will be empty.  sockaddr is a tuple describing a socket address, whose
format depends on the returned family (a  2-tuple for
, a  4-tuple for
), and is meant to be passed to the 
method.
The following example fetches address information for a hypothetical TCP
connection to  on port 80 (results may differ on your
system if IPv6 isn’t enabled):



Changed in version 3.2: parameters can now be passed using keyword arguments.


Changed in version 3.7: for IPv6 multicast addresses, string representing an address will not
contain  part.




([name])¶
Return a fully qualified domain name for name. If name is omitted or empty,
it is interpreted as the local host.  To find the fully qualified name, the
hostname returned by  is checked, followed by aliases for the
host, if available.  The first name which includes a period is selected.  In
case no fully qualified domain name is available, the hostname as returned by
 is returned.



(hostname)¶
Translate a host name to IPv4 address format.  The IPv4 address is returned as a
string, such as  .  If the host name is an IPv4 address itself
it is returned unchanged.  See  for a more complete
interface.  does not support IPv6 name resolution, and
 should be used instead for IPv4/v6 dual stack support.



(hostname)¶
Translate a host name to IPv4 address format, extended interface. Return a
triple  where hostname is the primary
host name responding to the given ip_address, aliaslist is a (possibly
empty) list of alternative host names for the same address, and ipaddrlist is
a list of IPv4 addresses for the same interface on the same host (often but not
always a single address).  does not support IPv6 name
resolution, and  should be used instead for IPv4/v6 dual
stack support.



()¶
Return a string containing the hostname of the machine where  the Python
interpreter is currently executing.
Note:  doesn’t always return the fully qualified domain
name; use  for that.



(ip_address)¶
Return a triple  where hostname is the
primary host name responding to the given ip_address, aliaslist is a
(possibly empty) list of alternative host names for the same address, and
ipaddrlist is a list of IPv4/v6 addresses for the same interface on the same
host (most likely containing only a single address). To find the fully qualified
domain name, use the function .  supports
both IPv4 and IPv6.



(sockaddr, flags)¶
Translate a socket address sockaddr into a 2-tuple . Depending
on the settings of flags, the result can contain a fully-qualified domain name
or numeric address representation in host.  Similarly, port can contain a
string port name or a numeric port number.
For IPv6 addresses,  is appended to the host part if sockaddr
contains meaningful scopeid. Usually this happens for multicast addresses.



(protocolname)¶
Translate an Internet protocol name (for example, ) to a constant
suitable for passing as the (optional) third argument to the 
function.  This is usually only needed for sockets opened in “raw” mode
(); for the normal socket modes, the correct protocol is chosen
automatically if the protocol is omitted or zero.



(servicename[, protocolname])¶
Translate an Internet service name and protocol name to a port number for that
service.  The optional protocol name, if given, should be  or
, otherwise any protocol will match.



(port[, protocolname])¶
Translate an Internet port number and protocol name to a service name for that
service.  The optional protocol name, if given, should be  or
, otherwise any protocol will match.



(x)¶
Convert 32-bit positive integers from network to host byte order.  On machines
where the host byte order is the same as network byte order, this is a no-op;
otherwise, it performs a 4-byte swap operation.



(x)¶
Convert 16-bit positive integers from network to host byte order.  On machines
where the host byte order is the same as network byte order, this is a no-op;
otherwise, it performs a 2-byte swap operation.

Deprecated since version 3.7: In case x does not fit in 16-bit unsigned integer, but does fit in a
positive C int, it is silently truncated to 16-bit unsigned integer.
This silent truncation feature is deprecated, and will raise an
exception in future versions of Python.




(x)¶
Convert 32-bit positive integers from host to network byte order.  On machines
where the host byte order is the same as network byte order, this is a no-op;
otherwise, it performs a 4-byte swap operation.



(x)¶
Convert 16-bit positive integers from host to network byte order.  On machines
where the host byte order is the same as network byte order, this is a no-op;
otherwise, it performs a 2-byte swap operation.

Deprecated since version 3.7: In case x does not fit in 16-bit unsigned integer, but does fit in a
positive C int, it is silently truncated to 16-bit unsigned integer.
This silent truncation feature is deprecated, and will raise an
exception in future versions of Python.




(ip_string)¶
Convert an IPv4 address from dotted-quad string format (for example,
‘123.45.67.89’) to 32-bit packed binary format, as a bytes object four characters in
length.  This is useful when conversing with a program that uses the standard C
library and needs objects of type , which is the C type
for the 32-bit packed binary this function returns.
 also accepts strings with less than three dots; see the
Unix manual page inet(3) for details.
If the IPv4 address string passed to this function is invalid,
 will be raised. Note that exactly what is valid depends on
the underlying C implementation of .
 does not support IPv6, and  should be used
instead for IPv4/v6 dual stack support.



(packed_ip)¶
Convert a 32-bit packed IPv4 address (a bytes-like object four
bytes in length) to its standard dotted-quad string representation (for example,
‘123.45.67.89’).  This is useful when conversing with a program that uses the
standard C library and needs objects of type , which
is the C type for the 32-bit packed binary data this function takes as an
argument.
If the byte sequence passed to this function is not exactly 4 bytes in
length,  will be raised.  does not
support IPv6, and  should be used instead for IPv4/v6 dual
stack support.

Changed in version 3.5: Writable bytes-like object is now accepted.




(address_family, ip_string)¶
Convert an IP address from its family-specific string format to a packed,
binary format.  is useful when a library or network protocol
calls for an object of type  (similar to
) or .
Supported values for address_family are currently  and
. If the IP address string ip_string is invalid,
 will be raised. Note that exactly what is valid depends on
both the value of address_family and the underlying implementation of
.
Availability: Unix (maybe not all platforms), Windows.

Changed in version 3.4: Windows support added




(address_family, packed_ip)¶
Convert a packed IP address (a bytes-like object of some number of
bytes) to its standard, family-specific string representation (for
example,  or ).
 is useful when a library or network protocol returns an
object of type  (similar to ) or
.
Supported values for address_family are currently  and
. If the bytes object packed_ip is not the correct
length for the specified address family,  will be raised.
 is raised for errors from the call to .
Availability: Unix (maybe not all platforms), Windows.

Changed in version 3.4: Windows support added


Changed in version 3.5: Writable bytes-like object is now accepted.




(length)¶
Return the total length, without trailing padding, of an ancillary
data item with associated data of the given length.  This value
can often be used as the buffer size for  to
receive a single item of ancillary data, but RFC 3542 requires
portable applications to use  and thus include
space for padding, even when the item will be the last in the
buffer.  Raises  if length is outside the
permissible range of values.
Availability: most Unix platforms, possibly others.

New in version 3.3.




(length)¶
Return the buffer size needed for  to
receive an ancillary data item with associated data of the given
length, along with any trailing padding.  The buffer space needed
to receive multiple items is the sum of the 
values for their associated data lengths.  Raises
 if length is outside the permissible range
of values.
Note that some systems might support ancillary data without
providing this function.  Also note that setting the buffer size
using the results of this function may not precisely limit the
amount of ancillary data that can be received, since additional
data may be able to fit into the padding area.
Availability: most Unix platforms, possibly others.

New in version 3.3.




()¶
Return the default timeout in seconds (float) for new socket objects. A value
of  indicates that new socket objects have no timeout. When the socket
module is first imported, the default is .



(timeout)¶
Set the default timeout in seconds (float) for new socket objects.  When
the socket module is first imported, the default is .  See
 for possible values and their respective
meanings.



(name)¶
Set the machine’s hostname to name.  This will raise an
 if you don’t have enough rights.
Availability: Unix.

New in version 3.3.




()¶
Return a list of network interface information
(index int, name string) tuples.
 if the system call fails.
Availability: Unix.

New in version 3.3.




(if_name)¶
Return a network interface index number corresponding to an
interface name.
 if no interface with the given name exists.
Availability: Unix.

New in version 3.3.




(if_index)¶
Return a network interface name corresponding to an
interface index number.
 if no interface with the given index exists.
Availability: Unix.

New in version 3.3.



