link:
library/email.generator.html#email.generator.BytesGenerator

docs:


class (outfp, mangle_from_=None, maxheaderlen=None, *, policy=None)¶
Return a  object that will write any message provided
to the  method, or any surrogateescape encoded text provided
to the  method, to the file-like object outfp.
outfp must support a  method that accepts binary data.
If optional mangle_from_ is , put a  character in front of
any line in the body that starts with the exact string , that is
 followed by a space at the beginning of a line.  mangle_from_
defaults to the value of the 
setting of the policy (which is  for the
 policy and  for all others).
mangle_from_ is intended for use when messages are stored in unix mbox
format (see  and WHY THE CONTENT-LENGTH FORMAT IS BAD).
If maxheaderlen is not , refold any header lines that are longer
than maxheaderlen, or if , do not rewrap any headers.  If
manheaderlen is  (the default), wrap headers and other message
lines according to the policy settings.
If policy is specified, use that policy to control message generation.  If
policy is  (the default), use the policy associated with the
 or 
object passed to  to control the message generation.  See
 for details on what policy controls.

New in version 3.2.


Changed in version 3.3: Added the policy keyword.


Changed in version 3.6: The default behavior of the mangle_from_
and maxheaderlen parameters is to follow the policy.



(msg, unixfrom=False, linesep=None)¶
Print the textual representation of the message object structure rooted
at msg to the output file specified when the 
instance was created.
If the  option 
is  (the default), copy any headers in the original parsed
message that have not been modified to the output with any bytes with the
high bit set reproduced as in the original, and preserve the non-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding of any body parts that have them.
If  is , convert the bytes with the high bit set as
needed using an ASCII-compatible Content-Transfer-Encoding.
That is, transform parts with non-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding
(Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit) to an ASCII compatible
Content-Transfer-Encoding, and encode RFC-invalid non-ASCII
bytes in headers using the MIME  character set, thus
rendering them RFC-compliant.
If unixfrom is , print the envelope header delimiter used by
the Unix mailbox format (see ) before the first of the
RFC 5322 headers of the root message object.  If the root object has
no envelope header, craft a standard one.  The default is .
Note that for subparts, no envelope header is ever printed.
If linesep is not , use it as the separator character between
all the lines of the flattened message.  If linesep is  (the
default), use the value specified in the policy.



(fp)¶
Return an independent clone of this  instance with
the exact same option settings, and fp as the new outfp.



(s)¶
Encode s using the  codec and the  error
handler, and pass it to the write method of the outfp passed to the
’s constructor.

