link:
library/email.contentmanager.html#email.contentmanager.ContentManager

docs:


class ¶
Base class for content managers.  Provides the standard registry mechanisms
to register converters between MIME content and other representations, as
well as the  and  dispatch methods.


(msg, *args, **kw)¶
Look up a handler function based on the  of msg (see next
paragraph), call it, passing through all arguments, and return the result
of the call.  The expectation is that the handler will extract the
payload from msg and return an object that encodes information about
the extracted data.
To find the handler, look for the following keys in the registry,
stopping with the first one found:


the string representing the full MIME type ()
the string representing the 
the empty string


If none of these keys produce a handler, raise a  for the
full MIME type.



(msg, obj, *args, **kw)¶
If the  is , raise a ; otherwise
look up a handler function based on the type of obj (see next
paragraph), call  on the
msg, and call the handler function, passing through all arguments.  The
expectation is that the handler will transform and store obj into
msg, possibly making other changes to msg as well, such as adding
various MIME headers to encode information needed to interpret the stored
data.
To find the handler, obtain the type of obj (), and
look for the following keys in the registry, stopping with the first one
found:


the type itself ()
the type’s fully qualified name ().
the type’s qualname ()
the type’s name ().


If none of the above match, repeat all of the checks above for each of
the types in the MRO ().  Finally, if no other key
yields a handler, check for a handler for the key .  If there is
no handler for , raise a  for the fully
qualified name of the type.
Also add a MIME-Version header if one is not present (see
also ).



(key, handler)¶
Record the function handler as the handler for key.  For the possible
values of key, see .



(typekey, handler)¶
Record handler as the function to call when an object of a type
matching typekey is passed to .  For the possible
values of typekey, see .

