link:
library/html.parser.html#module-html.parser

docs:

 — Simple HTML and XHTML parser¶
Source code: Lib/html/parser.py

This module defines a class  which serves as the basis for
parsing text files formatted in HTML (HyperText Mark-up Language) and XHTML.


class (*, convert_charrefs=True)¶
Create a parser instance able to parse invalid markup.
If convert_charrefs is  (the default), all character
references (except the ones in / elements) are
automatically converted to the corresponding Unicode characters.
An  instance is fed HTML data and calls handler methods
when start tags, end tags, text, comments, and other markup elements are
encountered.  The user should subclass  and override its
methods to implement the desired behavior.
This parser does not check that end tags match start tags or call the end-tag
handler for elements which are closed implicitly by closing an outer element.

Changed in version 3.4: convert_charrefs keyword argument added.


Changed in version 3.5: The default value for argument convert_charrefs is now .



Example HTML Parser Application¶
As a basic example, below is a simple HTML parser that uses the
 class to print out start tags, end tags, and data
as they are encountered:


The output will then be:




 Methods¶
 instances have the following methods:


(data)¶
Feed some text to the parser.  It is processed insofar as it consists of
complete elements; incomplete data is buffered until more data is fed or
 is called.  data must be .



()¶
Force processing of all buffered data as if it were followed by an end-of-file
mark.  This method may be redefined by a derived class to define additional
processing at the end of the input, but the redefined version should always call
the  base class method .



()¶
Reset the instance.  Loses all unprocessed data.  This is called implicitly at
instantiation time.



()¶
Return current line number and offset.



()¶
Return the text of the most recently opened start tag.  This should not normally
be needed for structured processing, but may be useful in dealing with HTML “as
deployed” or for re-generating input with minimal changes (whitespace between
attributes can be preserved, etc.).

The following methods are called when data or markup elements are encountered
and they are meant to be overridden in a subclass.  The base class
implementations do nothing (except for ):


(tag, attrs)¶
This method is called to handle the start of a tag (e.g. ).
The tag argument is the name of the tag converted to lower case. The attrs
argument is a list of  pairs containing the attributes found
inside the tag’s  brackets.  The name will be translated to lower case,
and quotes in the value have been removed, and character and entity references
have been replaced.
For instance, for the tag , this method
would be called as .
All entity references from  are replaced in the attribute
values.



(tag)¶
This method is called to handle the end tag of an element (e.g. ).
The tag argument is the name of the tag converted to lower case.



(tag, attrs)¶
Similar to , but called when the parser encounters an
XHTML-style empty tag ().  This method may be overridden by
subclasses which require this particular lexical information; the default
implementation simply calls  and .



(data)¶
This method is called to process arbitrary data (e.g. text nodes and the
content of  and ).



(name)¶
This method is called to process a named character reference of the form
 (e.g. ), where name is a general entity reference
(e.g. ).  This method is never called if convert_charrefs is
.



(name)¶
This method is called to process decimal and hexadecimal numeric character
references of the form  and .  For example, the decimal
equivalent for  is , whereas the hexadecimal is ;
in this case the method will receive  or .  This method
is never called if convert_charrefs is .



(data)¶
This method is called when a comment is encountered (e.g. ).
For example, the comment  will cause this method to be
called with the argument .
The content of Internet Explorer conditional comments (condcoms) will also be
sent to this method, so, for ,
this method will receive .



(decl)¶
This method is called to handle an HTML doctype declaration (e.g.
).
The decl parameter will be the entire contents of the declaration inside
the  markup (e.g. ).



(data)¶
Method called when a processing instruction is encountered.  The data
parameter will contain the entire processing instruction. For example, for the
processing instruction , this method would be called as
.  It is intended to be overridden by a derived
class; the base class implementation does nothing.

Note
The  class uses the SGML syntactic rules for processing
instructions.  An XHTML processing instruction using the trailing  will
cause the  to be included in data.




(data)¶
This method is called when an unrecognized declaration is read by the parser.
The data parameter will be the entire contents of the declaration inside
the  markup.  It is sometimes useful to be overridden by a
derived class.  The base class implementation does nothing.



Examples¶
The following class implements a parser that will be used to illustrate more
examples:


Parsing a doctype:


Parsing an element with a few attributes and a title:


The content of  and  elements is returned as is, without
further parsing:


Parsing comments:


Parsing named and numeric character references and converting them to the
correct char (note: these 3 references are all equivalent to ):


Feeding incomplete chunks to  works, but
 might be called more than once
(unless convert_charrefs is set to ):


Parsing invalid HTML (e.g. unquoted attributes) also works:



