link:
library/html.parser.html#htmlparser-methods

docs:

 Methods¶
 instances have the following methods:


(data)¶
Feed some text to the parser.  It is processed insofar as it consists of
complete elements; incomplete data is buffered until more data is fed or
 is called.  data must be .



()¶
Force processing of all buffered data as if it were followed by an end-of-file
mark.  This method may be redefined by a derived class to define additional
processing at the end of the input, but the redefined version should always call
the  base class method .



()¶
Reset the instance.  Loses all unprocessed data.  This is called implicitly at
instantiation time.



()¶
Return current line number and offset.



()¶
Return the text of the most recently opened start tag.  This should not normally
be needed for structured processing, but may be useful in dealing with HTML “as
deployed” or for re-generating input with minimal changes (whitespace between
attributes can be preserved, etc.).

The following methods are called when data or markup elements are encountered
and they are meant to be overridden in a subclass.  The base class
implementations do nothing (except for ):


(tag, attrs)¶
This method is called to handle the start of a tag (e.g. ).
The tag argument is the name of the tag converted to lower case. The attrs
argument is a list of  pairs containing the attributes found
inside the tag’s  brackets.  The name will be translated to lower case,
and quotes in the value have been removed, and character and entity references
have been replaced.
For instance, for the tag , this method
would be called as .
All entity references from  are replaced in the attribute
values.



(tag)¶
This method is called to handle the end tag of an element (e.g. ).
The tag argument is the name of the tag converted to lower case.



(tag, attrs)¶
Similar to , but called when the parser encounters an
XHTML-style empty tag ().  This method may be overridden by
subclasses which require this particular lexical information; the default
implementation simply calls  and .



(data)¶
This method is called to process arbitrary data (e.g. text nodes and the
content of  and ).



(name)¶
This method is called to process a named character reference of the form
 (e.g. ), where name is a general entity reference
(e.g. ).  This method is never called if convert_charrefs is
.



(name)¶
This method is called to process decimal and hexadecimal numeric character
references of the form  and .  For example, the decimal
equivalent for  is , whereas the hexadecimal is ;
in this case the method will receive  or .  This method
is never called if convert_charrefs is .



(data)¶
This method is called when a comment is encountered (e.g. ).
For example, the comment  will cause this method to be
called with the argument .
The content of Internet Explorer conditional comments (condcoms) will also be
sent to this method, so, for ,
this method will receive .



(decl)¶
This method is called to handle an HTML doctype declaration (e.g.
).
The decl parameter will be the entire contents of the declaration inside
the  markup (e.g. ).



(data)¶
Method called when a processing instruction is encountered.  The data
parameter will contain the entire processing instruction. For example, for the
processing instruction , this method would be called as
.  It is intended to be overridden by a derived
class; the base class implementation does nothing.

Note
The  class uses the SGML syntactic rules for processing
instructions.  An XHTML processing instruction using the trailing  will
cause the  to be included in data.




(data)¶
This method is called when an unrecognized declaration is read by the parser.
The data parameter will be the entire contents of the declaration inside
the  markup.  It is sometimes useful to be overridden by a
derived class.  The base class implementation does nothing.

