link:
library/xml.dom.html#document-objects

docs:

Document Objects¶
A  represents an entire XML document, including its constituent
elements, attributes, processing instructions, comments etc.  Remember that it
inherits properties from .


¶
The one and only root element of the document.



(tagName)¶
Create and return a new element node.  The element is not inserted into the
document when it is created.  You need to explicitly insert it with one of the
other methods such as  or .



(namespaceURI, tagName)¶
Create and return a new element with a namespace.  The tagName may have a
prefix.  The element is not inserted into the document when it is created.  You
need to explicitly insert it with one of the other methods such as
 or .



(data)¶
Create and return a text node containing the data passed as a parameter.  As
with the other creation methods, this one does not insert the node into the
tree.



(data)¶
Create and return a comment node containing the data passed as a parameter.  As
with the other creation methods, this one does not insert the node into the
tree.



(target, data)¶
Create and return a processing instruction node containing the target and
data passed as parameters.  As with the other creation methods, this one does
not insert the node into the tree.



(name)¶
Create and return an attribute node.  This method does not associate the
attribute node with any particular element.  You must use
 on the appropriate  object to use the
newly created attribute instance.



(namespaceURI, qualifiedName)¶
Create and return an attribute node with a namespace.  The tagName may have a
prefix.  This method does not associate the attribute node with any particular
element.  You must use  on the appropriate
 object to use the newly created attribute instance.



(tagName)¶
Search for all descendants (direct children, children’s children, etc.) with a
particular element type name.



(namespaceURI, localName)¶
Search for all descendants (direct children, children’s children, etc.) with a
particular namespace URI and localname.  The localname is the part of the
namespace after the prefix.

