link:
library/xml.dom.minidom.html#dom-objects

docs:

DOM Objects¶
The definition of the DOM API for Python is given as part of the 
module documentation.  This section lists the differences between the API and
.


()¶
Break internal references within the DOM so that it will be garbage collected on
versions of Python without cyclic GC.  Even when cyclic GC is available, using
this can make large amounts of memory available sooner, so calling this on DOM
objects as soon as they are no longer needed is good practice.  This only needs
to be called on the  object, but may be called on child nodes
to discard children of that node.
You can avoid calling this method explicitly by using the 
statement. The following code will automatically unlink dom when the
 block is exited:





(writer, indent="", addindent="", newl="")¶
Write XML to the writer object.  The writer should have a  method
which matches that of the file object interface.  The indent parameter is the
indentation of the current node.  The addindent parameter is the incremental
indentation to use for subnodes of the current one.  The newl parameter
specifies the string to use to terminate newlines.
For the  node, an additional keyword argument encoding can
be used to specify the encoding field of the XML header.



(encoding=None)¶
Return a string or byte string containing the XML represented by
the DOM node.
With an explicit encoding [1] argument, the result is a byte
string in the specified encoding.
With no encoding argument, the result is a Unicode string, and the
XML declaration in the resulting string does not specify an
encoding. Encoding this string in an encoding other than UTF-8 is
likely incorrect, since UTF-8 is the default encoding of XML.



(indent="\t", newl="\n", encoding=None)¶
Return a pretty-printed version of the document. indent specifies the
indentation string and defaults to a tabulator; newl specifies the string
emitted at the end of each line and defaults to .
The encoding argument behaves like the corresponding argument of
.

