link:
library/xml.dom.minidom.html#minidom-and-the-dom-standard

docs:

minidom and the DOM standard¶
The  module is essentially a DOM 1.0-compatible DOM with
some DOM 2 features (primarily namespace features).
Usage of the DOM interface in Python is straight-forward.  The following mapping
rules apply:

Interfaces are accessed through instance objects. Applications should not
instantiate the classes themselves; they should use the creator functions
available on the  object. Derived interfaces support all
operations (and attributes) from the base interfaces, plus any new operations.
Operations are used as methods. Since the DOM uses only 
parameters, the arguments are passed in normal order (from left to right).
There are no optional arguments.  operations return .
IDL attributes map to instance attributes. For compatibility with the OMG IDL
language mapping for Python, an attribute  can also be accessed through
accessor methods  and .  
attributes must not be changed; this is not enforced at runtime.
The types , , , and
 all map to Python integer objects.
The type  maps to Python strings.  supports
either bytes or strings, but will normally produce strings.
Values of type  may also be  where allowed to have the IDL
 value by the DOM specification from the W3C.
 declarations map to variables in their respective scope (e.g.
); they must not be changed.
 is currently not supported in .
Instead,  uses standard Python exceptions such as
 and .
 objects are implemented using Python’s built-in list type.
These objects provide the interface defined in the DOM specification, but with
earlier versions of Python they do not support the official API.  They are,
however, much more “Pythonic” than the interface defined in the W3C
recommendations.

The following interfaces have no implementation in :




Most of these reflect information in the XML document that is not of general
utility to most DOM users.
Footnotes



[1]The encoding name included in the XML output should conform to
the appropriate standards. For example, “UTF-8” is valid, but
“UTF8” is not valid in an XML document’s declaration, even though
Python accepts it as an encoding name.
See https://www.w3.org/TR/2006/REC-xml11-20060816/#NT-EncodingDecl
and https://www.iana.org/assignments/character-sets/character-sets.xhtml.


