link:
library/xml.sax.reader.html#xmlreader-objects

docs:

XMLReader Objects¶
The  interface supports the following methods:


(source)¶
Process an input source, producing SAX events. The source object can be a
system identifier (a string identifying the input source – typically a file
name or a URL), a file-like object, or an  object. When
 returns, the input is completely processed, and the parser object
can be discarded or reset.

Changed in version 3.5: Added support of character streams.




()¶
Return the current .



(handler)¶
Set the current .  If no
 is set, content events will be
discarded.



()¶
Return the current .



(handler)¶
Set the current .  If no
 is set, DTD
events will be discarded.



()¶
Return the current .



(handler)¶
Set the current .  If no
 is set,
attempts to resolve an external entity will result in opening the system
identifier for the entity, and fail if it is not available.



()¶
Return the current .



(handler)¶
Set the current error handler.  If no 
is set, errors will be raised as exceptions, and warnings will be printed.



(locale)¶
Allow an application to set the locale for errors and warnings.
SAX parsers are not required to provide localization for errors and warnings; if
they cannot support the requested locale, however, they must raise a SAX
exception.  Applications may request a locale change in the middle of a parse.



(featurename)¶
Return the current setting for feature featurename.  If the feature is not
recognized,  is raised. The well-known
featurenames are listed in the module .



(featurename, value)¶
Set the featurename to value. If the feature is not recognized,
 is raised. If the feature or its setting is not
supported by the parser, SAXNotSupportedException is raised.



(propertyname)¶
Return the current setting for property propertyname. If the property is not
recognized, a  is raised. The well-known
propertynames are listed in the module .



(propertyname, value)¶
Set the propertyname to value. If the property is not recognized,
 is raised. If the property or its setting is
not supported by the parser, SAXNotSupportedException is raised.

