link:
library/poplib.html#module-poplib

docs:

 — POP3 protocol client¶
Source code: Lib/poplib.py

This module defines a class, , which encapsulates a connection to a
POP3 server and implements the protocol as defined in RFC 1939. The
 class supports both the minimal and optional command sets from
RFC 1939. The  class also supports the  command introduced
in RFC 2595 to enable encrypted communication on an already established connection.
Additionally, this module provides a class , which provides
support for connecting to POP3 servers that use SSL as an underlying protocol
layer.
Note that POP3, though widely supported, is obsolescent.  The implementation
quality of POP3 servers varies widely, and too many are quite poor. If your
mailserver supports IMAP, you would be better off using the
 class, as IMAP servers tend to be better implemented.
The  module provides two classes:


class (host, port=POP3_PORT[, timeout])¶
This class implements the actual POP3 protocol.  The connection is created when
the instance is initialized. If port is omitted, the standard POP3 port (110)
is used. The optional timeout parameter specifies a timeout in seconds for the
connection attempt (if not specified, the global default timeout setting will
be used).



class (host, port=POP3_SSL_PORT, keyfile=None, certfile=None, timeout=None, context=None)¶
This is a subclass of  that connects to the server over an SSL
encrypted socket.  If port is not specified, 995, the standard POP3-over-SSL
port is used.  timeout works as in the  constructor.
context is an optional  object which allows
bundling SSL configuration options, certificates and private keys into a
single (potentially long-lived) structure.  Please read Security considerations
for best practices.
keyfile and certfile are a legacy alternative to context - they can
point to PEM-formatted private key and certificate chain files,
respectively, for the SSL connection.

Changed in version 3.2: context parameter added.


Changed in version 3.4: The class now supports hostname check with
 and Server Name Indication (see
).


Deprecated since version 3.6: keyfile and certfile are deprecated in favor of context.
Please use  instead, or let
 select the system’s trusted CA
certificates for you.


One exception is defined as an attribute of the  module:


exception ¶
Exception raised on any errors from this module (errors from 
module are not caught). The reason for the exception is passed to the
constructor as a string.


See also

Module 
The standard Python IMAP module.
Frequently Asked Questions About Fetchmail
The FAQ for the fetchmail POP/IMAP client collects information on
POP3 server variations and RFC noncompliance that may be useful if you need to
write an application based on the POP protocol.



POP3 Objects¶
All POP3 commands are represented by methods of the same name, in lower-case;
most return the response text sent by the server.
An  instance has the following methods:


(level)¶
Set the instance’s debugging level.  This controls the amount of debugging
output printed.  The default, , produces no debugging output.  A value of
 produces a moderate amount of debugging output, generally a single line
per request.  A value of  or higher produces the maximum amount of
debugging output, logging each line sent and received on the control connection.



()¶
Returns the greeting string sent by the POP3 server.



()¶
Query the server’s capabilities as specified in RFC 2449.
Returns a dictionary in the form .

New in version 3.4.




(username)¶
Send user command, response should indicate that a password is required.



(password)¶
Send password, response includes message count and mailbox size. Note: the
mailbox on the server is locked until  is called.



(user, secret)¶
Use the more secure APOP authentication to log into the POP3 server.



(user)¶
Use RPOP authentication (similar to UNIX r-commands) to log into POP3 server.



()¶
Get mailbox status.  The result is a tuple of 2 integers: .



([which])¶
Request message list, result is in the form . If which is set, it is the message to list.



(which)¶
Retrieve whole message number which, and set its seen flag. Result is in form
.



(which)¶
Flag message number which for deletion.  On most servers deletions are not
actually performed until QUIT (the major exception is Eudora QPOP, which
deliberately violates the RFCs by doing pending deletes on any disconnect).



()¶
Remove any deletion marks for the mailbox.



()¶
Do nothing.  Might be used as a keep-alive.



()¶
Signoff:  commit changes, unlock mailbox, drop connection.



(which, howmuch)¶
Retrieves the message header plus howmuch lines of the message after the
header of message number which. Result is in form .
The POP3 TOP command this method uses, unlike the RETR command, doesn’t set the
message’s seen flag; unfortunately, TOP is poorly specified in the RFCs and is
frequently broken in off-brand servers. Test this method by hand against the
POP3 servers you will use before trusting it.



(which=None)¶
Return message digest (unique id) list. If which is specified, result contains
the unique id for that message in the form , otherwise
result is list .



()¶
Try to switch to UTF-8 mode. Returns the server response if successful,
raises  if not. Specified in RFC 6856.

New in version 3.5.




(context=None)¶
Start a TLS session on the active connection as specified in RFC 2595.
This is only allowed before user authentication
context parameter is a  object which allows
bundling SSL configuration options, certificates and private keys into
a single (potentially long-lived) structure.  Please read Security considerations
for best practices.
This method supports hostname checking via
 and Server Name Indication (see
).

New in version 3.4.


Instances of  have no additional methods. The interface of this
subclass is identical to its parent.


POP3 Example¶
Here is a minimal example (without error checking) that opens a mailbox and
retrieves and prints all messages:


At the end of the module, there is a test section that contains a more extensive
example of usage.

