link:
library/smtpd.html#smtpd.SMTPServer

docs:


class (localaddr, remoteaddr, data_size_limit=33554432, map=None, enable_SMTPUTF8=False, decode_data=False)¶
Create a new  object, which binds to local address
localaddr.  It will treat remoteaddr as an upstream SMTP relayer.  Both
localaddr and remoteaddr should be a (host, port)
tuple.  The object inherits from , and so will
insert itself into ’s event loop on instantiation.
data_size_limit specifies the maximum number of bytes that will be
accepted in a  command.  A value of  or  means no
limit.
map is the socket map to use for connections (an initially empty
dictionary is a suitable value).  If not specified the 
global socket map is used.
enable_SMTPUTF8 determines whether the  extension (as defined
in RFC 6531) should be enabled.  The default is .
When ,  is accepted as a parameter to the 
command and when present is passed to  in the
 list.  decode_data and enable_SMTPUTF8
cannot be set to  at the same time.
decode_data specifies whether the data portion of the SMTP transaction
should be decoded using UTF-8.  When decode_data is  (the
default), the server advertises the 
extension (RFC 6152), accepts the  parameter to
the  command, and when present passes it to 
in the  list. decode_data and enable_SMTPUTF8
cannot be set to  at the same time.


(peer, mailfrom, rcpttos, data, **kwargs)¶
Raise a  exception. Override this in subclasses to
do something useful with this message. Whatever was passed in the
constructor as remoteaddr will be available as the 
attribute. peer is the remote host’s address, mailfrom is the envelope
originator, rcpttos are the envelope recipients and data is a string
containing the contents of the e-mail (which should be in RFC 5321
format).
If the decode_data constructor keyword is set to , the data
argument will be a unicode string.  If it is set to , it
will be a bytes object.
kwargs is a dictionary containing additional information. It is empty
if  was given as an init argument, otherwise
it contains the following keys:


mail_options:
a list of all received parameters to the 
command (the elements are uppercase strings; example:
).
rcpt_options:
same as mail_options but for the  command.
Currently no  options are supported, so for now
this will always be an empty list.


Implementations of  should use the 
signature to accept arbitrary keyword arguments, since future feature
enhancements may add keys to the kwargs dictionary.
Return  to request a normal  response; otherwise
return the desired response string in RFC 5321 format.



¶
Override this in subclasses to use a custom  for
managing SMTP clients.


New in version 3.4: The map constructor argument.


Changed in version 3.5: localaddr and remoteaddr may now contain IPv6 addresses.


New in version 3.5: The decode_data and enable_SMTPUTF8 constructor parameters, and the
kwargs parameter to  when decode_data is
.


Changed in version 3.6: decode_data is now  by default.

