link:
library/socketserver.html

docs:


 — A framework for network servers¶
Source code: Lib/socketserver.py

The  module simplifies the task of writing network servers.
There are four basic concrete server classes:


class (server_address, RequestHandlerClass, bind_and_activate=True)¶
This uses the Internet TCP protocol, which provides for
continuous streams of data between the client and server.
If bind_and_activate is true, the constructor automatically attempts to
invoke  and
.  The other parameters are passed to
the  base class.



class (server_address, RequestHandlerClass, bind_and_activate=True)¶
This uses datagrams, which are discrete packets of information that may
arrive out of order or be lost while in transit.  The parameters are
the same as for .



class (server_address, RequestHandlerClass, bind_and_activate=True)¶

class (server_address, RequestHandlerClass, bind_and_activate=True)¶
These more infrequently used classes are similar to the TCP and
UDP classes, but use Unix domain sockets; they’re not available on
non-Unix platforms.  The parameters are the same as for
.

These four classes process requests synchronously; each request must be
completed before the next request can be started.  This isn’t suitable if each
request takes a long time to complete, because it requires a lot of computation,
or because it returns a lot of data which the client is slow to process.  The
solution is to create a separate process or thread to handle each request; the
 and  mix-in classes can be used to
support asynchronous behaviour.
Creating a server requires several steps.  First, you must create a request
handler class by subclassing the  class and
overriding its  method;
this method will process incoming
requests.  Second, you must instantiate one of the server classes, passing it
the server’s address and the request handler class. It is recommended to use
the server in a  statement. Then call the
 or
 method of the server object to
process one or many requests.  Finally, call 
to close the socket (unless you used a  statement).
When inheriting from  for threaded connection behavior,
you should explicitly declare how you want your threads to behave on an abrupt
shutdown.  The  class defines an attribute
daemon_threads, which indicates whether or not the server should wait for
thread termination.  You should set the flag explicitly if you would like
threads to behave autonomously; the default is , meaning that
Python will not exit until all threads created by  have
exited.
Server classes have the same external methods and attributes, no matter what
network protocol they use.

Server Creation Notes¶
There are five classes in an inheritance diagram, four of which represent
synchronous servers of four types:


Note that  derives from , not from
 — the only difference between an IP and a Unix
stream server is the address family, which is simply repeated in both Unix
server classes.


class ¶

class ¶
Forking and threading versions of each type of server can be created
using these mix-in classes.  For instance, 
is created as follows:


The mix-in class comes first, since it overrides a method defined in
.  Setting the various attributes also changes the
behavior of the underlying server mechanism.
 and the Forking classes mentioned below are
only available on POSIX platforms that support .
 waits until all child
processes complete, except if
 attribute is false.
 waits until all non-daemon
threads complete, except if
 attribute is false. Use
daemonic threads by setting
 to  to not wait until threads
complete.

Changed in version 3.7:  and
 now waits until all
child processes and non-daemonic threads complete.
Add a new  class
attribute to opt-in for the pre-3.7 behaviour.




class ¶

class ¶

class ¶

class ¶
These classes are pre-defined using the mix-in classes.

To implement a service, you must derive a class from 
and redefine its  method.
You can then run various versions of
the service by combining one of the server classes with your request handler
class.  The request handler class must be different for datagram or stream
services.  This can be hidden by using the handler subclasses
 or .
Of course, you still have to use your head!  For instance, it makes no sense to
use a forking server if the service contains state in memory that can be
modified by different requests, since the modifications in the child process
would never reach the initial state kept in the parent process and passed to
each child.  In this case, you can use a threading server, but you will probably
have to use locks to protect the integrity of the shared data.
On the other hand, if you are building an HTTP server where all data is stored
externally (for instance, in the file system), a synchronous class will
essentially render the service “deaf” while one request is being handled –
which may be for a very long time if a client is slow to receive all the data it
has requested.  Here a threading or forking server is appropriate.
In some cases, it may be appropriate to process part of a request synchronously,
but to finish processing in a forked child depending on the request data.  This
can be implemented by using a synchronous server and doing an explicit fork in
the request handler class  method.
Another approach to handling multiple simultaneous requests in an environment
that supports neither threads nor  (or where these are too
expensive or inappropriate for the service) is to maintain an explicit table of
partially finished requests and to use  to decide which
request to work on next (or whether to handle a new incoming request).  This is
particularly important for stream services where each client can potentially be
connected for a long time (if threads or subprocesses cannot be used).  See
 for another way to manage this.


Server Objects¶


class (server_address, RequestHandlerClass)¶
This is the superclass of all Server objects in the module.  It defines the
interface, given below, but does not implement most of the methods, which is
done in subclasses.  The two parameters are stored in the respective
 and  attributes.


()¶
Return an integer file descriptor for the socket on which the server is
listening.  This function is most commonly passed to , to
allow monitoring multiple servers in the same process.



()¶
Process a single request.  This function calls the following methods in
order: , , and
.  If the user-provided
 method of the
handler class raises an exception, the server’s  method
will be called.  If no request is received within 
seconds,  will be called and 
will return.



(poll_interval=0.5)¶
Handle requests until an explicit  request.  Poll for
shutdown every poll_interval seconds.
Ignores the  attribute.  It
also calls , which may be used by a subclass or mixin
to provide actions specific to a given service.  For example, the
 class uses  to clean up zombie
child processes.

Changed in version 3.3: Added  call to the  method.




()¶
This is called in the  loop. This method can be
overridden by subclasses or mixin classes to perform actions specific to
a given service, such as cleanup actions.

New in version 3.3.




()¶
Tell the  loop to stop and wait until it does.



()¶
Clean up the server. May be overridden.



¶
The family of protocols to which the server’s socket belongs.
Common examples are  and .



¶
The user-provided request handler class; an instance of this class is created
for each request.



¶
The address on which the server is listening.  The format of addresses varies
depending on the protocol family;
see the documentation for the  module
for details.  For Internet protocols, this is a tuple containing a string giving
the address, and an integer port number: , for example.



¶
The socket object on which the server will listen for incoming requests.

The server classes support the following class variables:


¶
Whether the server will allow the reuse of an address.  This defaults to
, and can be set in subclasses to change the policy.



¶
The size of the request queue.  If it takes a long time to process a single
request, any requests that arrive while the server is busy are placed into a
queue, up to  requests.  Once the queue is full,
further requests from clients will get a “Connection denied” error.  The default
value is usually 5, but this can be overridden by subclasses.



¶
The type of socket used by the server;  and
 are two common values.



¶
Timeout duration, measured in seconds, or  if no timeout is
desired.  If  receives no incoming requests within the
timeout period, the  method is called.

There are various server methods that can be overridden by subclasses of base
server classes like ; these methods aren’t useful to external
users of the server object.


(request, client_address)¶
Actually processes the request by instantiating  and
calling its  method.



()¶
Must accept a request from the socket, and return a 2-tuple containing the new
socket object to be used to communicate with the client, and the client’s
address.



(request, client_address)¶
This function is called if the 
method of a  instance raises
an exception.  The default action is to print the traceback to
standard error and continue handling further requests.

Changed in version 3.6: Now only called for exceptions derived from the 
class.




()¶
This function is called when the  attribute has been set to a
value other than  and the timeout period has passed with no
requests being received.  The default action for forking servers is
to collect the status of any child processes that have exited, while
in threading servers this method does nothing.



(request, client_address)¶
Calls  to create an instance of the
.  If desired, this function can create a new process
or thread to handle the request; the  and
 classes do this.



()¶
Called by the server’s constructor to activate the server.  The default behavior
for a TCP server just invokes 
on the server’s socket.  May be overridden.



()¶
Called by the server’s constructor to bind the socket to the desired address.
May be overridden.



(request, client_address)¶
Must return a Boolean value; if the value is , the request will
be processed, and if it’s , the request will be denied.  This
function can be overridden to implement access controls for a server. The
default implementation always returns .


Changed in version 3.6: Support for the context manager protocol was added.  Exiting the
context manager is equivalent to calling .




Request Handler Objects¶


class ¶
This is the superclass of all request handler objects.  It defines
the interface, given below.  A concrete request handler subclass must
define a new  method, and can override any of
the other methods.  A new instance of the subclass is created for each
request.


()¶
Called before the  method to perform any initialization actions
required.  The default implementation does nothing.



()¶
This function must do all the work required to service a request.  The
default implementation does nothing.  Several instance attributes are
available to it; the request is available as ; the client
address as ; and the server instance as
, in case it needs access to per-server information.
The type of  is different for datagram or stream
services.  For stream services,  is a socket object; for
datagram services,  is a pair of string and socket.



()¶
Called after the  method to perform any clean-up actions
required.  The default implementation does nothing.  If 
raises an exception, this function will not be called.




class ¶

class ¶
These  subclasses override the
 and 
methods, and provide  and  attributes.
The  and  attributes can be
read or written, respectively, to get the request data or return data
to the client.
The  attributes of both classes support the
 readable interface, and
 supports the
 writable interface.

Changed in version 3.6:  also supports the
 writable interface.




Examples¶

 Example¶
This is the server side:


An alternative request handler class that makes use of streams (file-like
objects that simplify communication by providing the standard file interface):


The difference is that the  call in the second handler will call
 multiple times until it encounters a newline character, while the
single  call in the first handler will just return what has been sent
from the client in one  call.
This is the client side:


The output of the example should look something like this:
Server:


Client:




 Example¶
This is the server side:


This is the client side:


The output of the example should look exactly like for the TCP server example.


Asynchronous Mixins¶
To build asynchronous handlers, use the  and
 classes.
An example for the  class:


The output of the example should look something like this:


The  class is used in the same way, except that the server
will spawn a new process for each request.
Available only on POSIX platforms that support .



