link:
library/http.cookiejar.html#cookiepolicy-objects

docs:

CookiePolicy Objects¶
Objects implementing the  interface have the following
methods:


(cookie, request)¶
Return boolean value indicating whether cookie should be accepted from server.
cookie is a  instance.  request is an object
implementing the interface defined by the documentation for
.



(cookie, request)¶
Return boolean value indicating whether cookie should be returned to server.
cookie is a  instance.  request is an object
implementing the interface defined by the documentation for
.



(domain, request)¶
Return false if cookies should not be returned, given cookie domain.
This method is an optimization.  It removes the need for checking every cookie
with a particular domain (which might involve reading many files).  Returning
true from  and  leaves all the
work to .
If  returns true for the cookie domain,
 is called for the cookie path.  Otherwise,
 and  are never called for that cookie
domain.  If  returns true,  is called
with the  object itself for a full check.  Otherwise,
 is never called for that cookie path.
Note that  is called for every cookie domain, not just
for the request domain.  For example, the function might be called with both
 and  if the request domain is
.  The same goes for .
The request argument is as documented for .



(path, request)¶
Return false if cookies should not be returned, given cookie path.
See the documentation for .

In addition to implementing the methods above, implementations of the
 interface must also supply the following attributes,
indicating which protocols should be used, and how.  All of these attributes may
be assigned to.


¶
Implement Netscape protocol.



¶
Implement RFC 2965 protocol.



¶
Don’t add Cookie2 header to requests (the presence of this header
indicates to the server that we understand RFC 2965 cookies).

The most useful way to define a  class is by subclassing
from  and overriding some or all of the methods
above.   itself may be used as a ‘null policy’ to allow
setting and receiving any and all cookies (this is unlikely to be useful).
