link:
library/xmlrpc.client.html#serverproxy-objects

docs:

ServerProxy Objects¶
A  instance has a method corresponding to each remote
procedure call accepted by the XML-RPC server.  Calling the method performs an
RPC, dispatched by both name and argument signature (e.g. the same method name
can be overloaded with multiple argument signatures).  The RPC finishes by
returning a value, which may be either returned data in a conformant type or a
 or  object indicating an error.
Servers that support the XML introspection API support some common methods
grouped under the reserved  attribute:


()¶
This method returns a list of strings, one for each (non-system) method
supported by the XML-RPC server.



(name)¶
This method takes one parameter, the name of a method implemented by the XML-RPC
server. It returns an array of possible signatures for this method. A signature
is an array of types. The first of these types is the return type of the method,
the rest are parameters.
Because multiple signatures (ie. overloading) is permitted, this method returns
a list of signatures rather than a singleton.
Signatures themselves are restricted to the top level parameters expected by a
method. For instance if a method expects one array of structs as a parameter,
and it returns a string, its signature is simply “string, array”. If it expects
three integers and returns a string, its signature is “string, int, int, int”.
If no signature is defined for the method, a non-array value is returned. In
Python this means that the type of the returned  value will be something other
than list.



(name)¶
This method takes one parameter, the name of a method implemented by the XML-RPC
server.  It returns a documentation string describing the use of that method. If
no such string is available, an empty string is returned. The documentation
string may contain HTML markup.


Changed in version 3.5: Instances of  support the context manager protocol
for closing the underlying transport.

A working example follows. The server code:


The client code for the preceding server:


