link:
library/xmlrpc.server.html#simplexmlrpcserver-objects

docs:

SimpleXMLRPCServer Objects¶
The  class is based on
 and provides a means of creating simple, stand
alone XML-RPC servers.


(function=None, name=None)¶
Register a function that can respond to XML-RPC requests.  If name is given,
it will be the method name associated with function, otherwise
 will be used.  name is a string, and may contain
characters not legal in Python identifiers, including the period character.
This method can also be used as a decorator.  When used as a decorator,
name can only be given as a keyword argument to register function under
name.  If no name is given,  will be used.

Changed in version 3.7:  can be used as a decorator.




(instance, allow_dotted_names=False)¶
Register an object which is used to expose method names which have not been
registered using .  If instance contains a
 method, it is called with the requested method name and the
parameters from the request.  Its API is 
(note that params does not represent a variable argument list).  If it calls
an underlying function to perform its task, that function is called as
, expanding the parameter list. The return value from
 is returned to the client as the result.  If instance does
not have a  method, it is searched for an attribute matching
the name of the requested method.
If the optional allow_dotted_names argument is true and the instance does not
have a  method, then if the requested method name contains
periods, each component of the method name is searched for individually, with
the effect that a simple hierarchical search is performed.  The value found from
this search is then called with the parameters from the request, and the return
value is passed back to the client.

Warning
Enabling the allow_dotted_names option allows intruders to access your
module’s global variables and may allow intruders to execute arbitrary code on
your machine.  Only use this option on a secure, closed network.




()¶
Registers the XML-RPC introspection functions ,
 and .



()¶
Registers the XML-RPC multicall function system.multicall.



¶
An attribute value that must be a tuple listing valid path portions of the URL
for receiving XML-RPC requests.  Requests posted to other paths will result in a
404 “no such page” HTTP error.  If this tuple is empty, all paths will be
considered valid. The default value is .


SimpleXMLRPCServer Example¶
Server code:


The following client code will call the methods made available by the preceding
server:


 can also be used as a decorator. The previous server
example can register functions in a decorator way:


The following example included in the  module shows
a server allowing dotted names and registering a multicall function.

Warning
Enabling the allow_dotted_names option allows intruders to access your
module’s global variables and may allow intruders to execute arbitrary code on
your machine.  Only use this example only within a secure, closed network.



This ExampleService demo can be invoked from the command line:


The client that interacts with the above server is included in
Lib/xmlrpc/client.py:


This client which interacts with the demo XMLRPC server can be invoked as:



