link:
library/re.html#regular-expression-syntax

docs:

Regular Expression Syntax¶
A regular expression (or RE) specifies a set of strings that matches it; the
functions in this module let you check if a particular string matches a given
regular expression (or if a given regular expression matches a particular
string, which comes down to the same thing).
Regular expressions can be concatenated to form new regular expressions; if A
and B are both regular expressions, then AB is also a regular expression.
In general, if a string p matches A and another string q matches B, the
string pq will match AB.  This holds unless A or B contain low precedence
operations; boundary conditions between A and B; or have numbered group
references.  Thus, complex expressions can easily be constructed from simpler
primitive expressions like the ones described here.  For details of the theory
and implementation of regular expressions, consult the Friedl book [Frie09],
or almost any textbook about compiler construction.
A brief explanation of the format of regular expressions follows.  For further
information and a gentler presentation, consult the Regular Expression HOWTO.
Regular expressions can contain both special and ordinary characters. Most
ordinary characters, like , , or , are the simplest regular
expressions; they simply match themselves.  You can concatenate ordinary
characters, so  matches the string .  (In the rest of this
section, we’ll write RE’s in , usually without quotes, and
strings to be matched .)
Some characters, like  or , are special. Special
characters either stand for classes of ordinary characters, or affect
how the regular expressions around them are interpreted.
Repetition qualifiers (, , , , etc) cannot be
directly nested. This avoids ambiguity with the non-greedy modifier suffix
, and with other modifiers in other implementations. To apply a second
repetition to an inner repetition, parentheses may be used. For example,
the expression  matches any multiple of six  characters.
The special characters are:


(Dot.)  In the default mode, this matches any character except a newline.  If
the  flag has been specified, this matches any character
including a newline.



(Caret.)  Matches the start of the string, and in  mode also
matches immediately after each newline.



Matches the end of the string or just before the newline at the end of the
string, and in  mode also matches before a newline.  
matches both ‘foo’ and ‘foobar’, while the regular expression  matches
only ‘foo’.  More interestingly, searching for  in 
matches ‘foo2’ normally, but ‘foo1’ in  mode; searching for
a single  in  will find two (empty) matches: one just before
the newline, and one at the end of the string.



Causes the resulting RE to match 0 or more repetitions of the preceding RE, as
many repetitions as are possible.   will match ‘a’, ‘ab’, or ‘a’ followed
by any number of ‘b’s.



Causes the resulting RE to match 1 or more repetitions of the preceding RE.
 will match ‘a’ followed by any non-zero number of ‘b’s; it will not
match just ‘a’.



Causes the resulting RE to match 0 or 1 repetitions of the preceding RE.
 will match either ‘a’ or ‘ab’.


, , 
The , , and  qualifiers are all greedy; they match
as much text as possible.  Sometimes this behaviour isn’t desired; if the RE
 is matched against , it will match the entire
string, and not just .  Adding  after the qualifier makes it
perform the match in non-greedy or minimal fashion; as few
characters as possible will be matched.  Using the RE  will match
only .



Specifies that exactly m copies of the previous RE should be matched; fewer
matches cause the entire RE not to match.  For example,  will match
exactly six  characters, but not five.

Causes the resulting RE to match from m to n repetitions of the preceding
RE, attempting to match as many repetitions as possible.  For example,
 will match from 3 to 5  characters.  Omitting m specifies a
lower bound of zero,  and omitting n specifies an infinite upper bound.  As an
example,  will match  or a thousand  characters
followed by a , but not . The comma may not be omitted or the
modifier would be confused with the previously described form.

Causes the resulting RE to match from m to n repetitions of the preceding
RE, attempting to match as few repetitions as possible.  This is the
non-greedy version of the previous qualifier.  For example, on the
6-character string ,  will match 5  characters,
while  will only match 3 characters.



Either escapes special characters (permitting you to match characters like
, , and so forth), or signals a special sequence; special
sequences are discussed below.
If you’re not using a raw string to express the pattern, remember that Python
also uses the backslash as an escape sequence in string literals; if the escape
sequence isn’t recognized by Python’s parser, the backslash and subsequent
character are included in the resulting string.  However, if Python would
recognize the resulting sequence, the backslash should be repeated twice.  This
is complicated and hard to understand, so it’s highly recommended that you use
raw strings for all but the simplest expressions.




Used to indicate a set of characters.  In a set:

Characters can be listed individually, e.g.  will match ,
, or .


Ranges of characters can be indicated by giving two characters and separating
them by a , for example  will match any lowercase ASCII letter,
 will match all the two-digits numbers from  to , and
 will match any hexadecimal digit.  If  is escaped (e.g.
) or if it’s placed as the first or last character
(e.g.  or ), it will match a literal .
Special characters lose their special meaning inside sets.  For example,
 will match any of the literal characters , ,
, or .


Character classes such as  or  (defined below) are also accepted
inside a set, although the characters they match depends on whether
 or  mode is in force.


Characters that are not within a range can be matched by complementing
the set.  If the first character of the set is , all the characters
that are not in the set will be matched.  For example,  will match
any character except , and  will match any character except
.   has no special meaning if it’s not the first character in
the set.
To match a literal  inside a set, precede it with a backslash, or
place it at the beginning of the set.  For example, both  and
 will both match a parenthesis.


Support of nested sets and set operations as in Unicode Technical
Standard #18 might be added in the future.  This would change the
syntax, so to facilitate this change a  will be raised
in ambiguous cases for the time being.
That includes sets starting with a literal  or containing literal
character sequences , , , and .  To
avoid a warning escape them with a backslash.


Changed in version 3.7:  is raised if a character set contains constructs
that will change semantically in the future.





, where A and B can be arbitrary REs, creates a regular expression that
will match either A or B.  An arbitrary number of REs can be separated by the
 in this way.  This can be used inside groups (see below) as well.  As
the target string is scanned, REs separated by  are tried from left to
right. When one pattern completely matches, that branch is accepted. This means
that once A matches, B will not be tested further, even if it would
produce a longer overall match.  In other words, the  operator is never
greedy.  To match a literal , use , or enclose it inside a
character class, as in .



Matches whatever regular expression is inside the parentheses, and indicates the
start and end of a group; the contents of a group can be retrieved after a match
has been performed, and can be matched later in the string with the 
special sequence, described below.  To match the literals  or ,
use  or , or enclose them inside a character class: , .



This is an extension notation (a  following a  is not meaningful
otherwise).  The first character after the  determines what the meaning
and further syntax of the construct is. Extensions usually do not create a new
group;  is the only exception to this rule. Following are the
currently supported extensions.

(One or more letters from the set , , , ,
, , .)  The group matches the empty string; the
letters set the corresponding flags:  (ASCII-only matching),
 (ignore case),  (locale dependent),
 (multi-line),  (dot matches all),
 (Unicode matching), and  (verbose),
for the entire regular expression.
(The flags are described in Module Contents.)
This is useful if you wish to include the flags as part of the
regular expression, instead of passing a flag argument to the
 function.  Flags should be used first in the
expression string.



A non-capturing version of regular parentheses.  Matches whatever regular
expression is inside the parentheses, but the substring matched by the group
cannot be retrieved after performing a match or referenced later in the
pattern.

(Zero or more letters from the set , , , ,
, , , optionally followed by  followed by
one or more letters from the , , , .)
The letters set or remove the corresponding flags:
 (ASCII-only matching),  (ignore case),
 (locale dependent),  (multi-line),
 (dot matches all),  (Unicode matching),
and  (verbose), for the part of the expression.
(The flags are described in Module Contents.)
The letters ,  and  are mutually exclusive when used
as inline flags, so they can’t be combined or follow .  Instead,
when one of them appears in an inline group, it overrides the matching mode
in the enclosing group.  In Unicode patterns  switches to
ASCII-only matching, and  switches to Unicode matching
(default).  In byte pattern  switches to locale depending
matching, and  switches to ASCII-only matching (default).
This override is only in effect for the narrow inline group, and the
original matching mode is restored outside of the group.

New in version 3.6.


Changed in version 3.7: The letters ,  and  also can be used in a group.





Similar to regular parentheses, but the substring matched by the group is
accessible via the symbolic group name name.  Group names must be valid
Python identifiers, and each group name must be defined only once within a
regular expression.  A symbolic group is also a numbered group, just as if
the group were not named.
Named groups can be referenced in three contexts.  If the pattern is
 (i.e. matching a string quoted with either
single or double quotes):






Context of reference to group “quote”
Ways to reference it



in the same pattern itself

 (as shown)




when processing match object m


 (etc.)



in a string passed to the repl
argument of 













A backreference to a named group; it matches whatever text was matched by the
earlier group named name.



A comment; the contents of the parentheses are simply ignored.



Matches if  matches next, but doesn’t consume any of the string.  This is
called a lookahead assertion.  For example,  will match
 only if it’s followed by .



Matches if  doesn’t match next.  This is a negative lookahead assertion.
For example,  will match  only if it’s not
followed by .



Matches if the current position in the string is preceded by a match for 
that ends at the current position.  This is called a positive lookbehind
assertion.  will find a match in , since the
lookbehind will back up 3 characters and check if the contained pattern matches.
The contained pattern must only match strings of some fixed length, meaning that
 or  are allowed, but  and  are not.  Note that
patterns which start with positive lookbehind assertions will not match at the
beginning of the string being searched; you will most likely want to use the
 function rather than the  function:


This example looks for a word following a hyphen:



Changed in version 3.5: Added support for group references of fixed length.





Matches if the current position in the string is not preceded by a match for
.  This is called a negative lookbehind assertion.  Similar to
positive lookbehind assertions, the contained pattern must only match strings of
some fixed length.  Patterns which start with negative lookbehind assertions may
match at the beginning of the string being searched.

Will try to match with  if the group with given id or
name exists, and with  if it doesn’t.  is
optional and can be omitted. For example,
 is a poor email matching pattern, which
will match with  as well as , but
not with  nor .

The special sequences consist of  and a character from the list below.
If the ordinary character is not an ASCII digit or an ASCII letter, then the
resulting RE will match the second character.  For example,  matches the
character .


Matches the contents of the group of the same number.  Groups are numbered
starting from 1.  For example,  matches  or ,
but not  (note the space after the group).  This special sequence
can only be used to match one of the first 99 groups.  If the first digit of
number is 0, or number is 3 octal digits long, it will not be interpreted as
a group match, but as the character with octal value number. Inside the
 and  of a character class, all numeric escapes are treated as
characters.



Matches only at the start of the string.



Matches the empty string, but only at the beginning or end of a word.
A word is defined as a sequence of word characters.  Note that formally,
 is defined as the boundary between a  and a  character
(or vice versa), or between  and the beginning/end of the string.
This means that  matches , , ,
 but not  or .
By default Unicode alphanumerics are the ones used in Unicode patterns, but
this can be changed by using the  flag.  Word boundaries are
determined by the current locale if the  flag is used.
Inside a character range,  represents the backspace character, for
compatibility with Python’s string literals.




Matches the empty string, but only when it is not at the beginning or end
of a word.  This means that  matches , ,
, but not , , or .
 is just the opposite of , so word characters in Unicode
patterns are Unicode alphanumerics or the underscore, although this can
be changed by using the  flag.  Word boundaries are
determined by the current locale if the  flag is used.




For Unicode (str) patterns:
Matches any Unicode decimal digit (that is, any character in
Unicode character category [Nd]).  This includes , and
also many other digit characters.  If the  flag is
used only  is matched.
For 8-bit (bytes) patterns:
Matches any decimal digit; this is equivalent to .





Matches any character which is not a decimal digit. This is
the opposite of . If the  flag is used this
becomes the equivalent of .




For Unicode (str) patterns:
Matches Unicode whitespace characters (which includes
, and also many other characters, for example the
non-breaking spaces mandated by typography rules in many
languages). If the  flag is used, only
 is matched.
For 8-bit (bytes) patterns:
Matches characters considered whitespace in the ASCII character set;
this is equivalent to .





Matches any character which is not a whitespace character. This is
the opposite of . If the  flag is used this
becomes the equivalent of .




For Unicode (str) patterns:
Matches Unicode word characters; this includes most characters
that can be part of a word in any language, as well as numbers and
the underscore. If the  flag is used, only
 is matched.
For 8-bit (bytes) patterns:
Matches characters considered alphanumeric in the ASCII character set;
this is equivalent to .  If the  flag is
used, matches characters considered alphanumeric in the current locale
and the underscore.





Matches any character which is not a word character. This is
the opposite of . If the  flag is used this
becomes the equivalent of .  If the  flag is
used, matches characters considered alphanumeric in the current locale
and the underscore.



Matches only at the end of the string.

Most of the standard escapes supported by Python string literals are also
accepted by the regular expression parser:


(Note that  is used to represent word boundaries, and means “backspace”
only inside character classes.)
 and  escape sequences are only recognized in Unicode
patterns.  In bytes patterns they are errors.  Unknown escapes of ASCII
letters are reserved for future use and treated as errors.
Octal escapes are included in a limited form.  If the first digit is a 0, or if
there are three octal digits, it is considered an octal escape. Otherwise, it is
a group reference.  As for string literals, octal escapes are always at most
three digits in length.

Changed in version 3.3: The  and  escape sequences have been added.


Changed in version 3.6: Unknown escapes consisting of  and an ASCII letter now are errors.

