link:
library/ossaudiodev.html

docs:


 — Access to OSS-compatible audio devices¶

This module allows you to access the OSS (Open Sound System) audio interface.
OSS is available for a wide range of open-source and commercial Unices, and is
the standard audio interface for Linux and recent versions of FreeBSD.

Changed in version 3.3: Operations in this module now raise  where 
was raised.


See also

Open Sound System Programmer’s Guide
the official documentation for the OSS C API

The module defines a large number of constants supplied by the OSS device
driver; see  on either Linux or FreeBSD for a listing.

 defines the following variables and functions:


exception ¶
This exception is raised on certain errors.  The argument is a string describing
what went wrong.
(If  receives an error from a system call such as
, , or , it raises .
Errors detected directly by  result in .)
(For backwards compatibility, the exception class is also available as
.)



(mode)¶

(device, mode)
Open an audio device and return an OSS audio device object.  This object
supports many file-like methods, such as , , and
 (although there are subtle differences between conventional Unix
read/write semantics and those of OSS audio devices).  It also supports a number
of audio-specific methods; see below for the complete list of methods.
device is the audio device filename to use.  If it is not specified, this
module first looks in the environment variable  for a device
to use.  If not found, it falls back to .
mode is one of  for read-only (record) access,  for
write-only (playback) access and  for both. Since many sound cards
only allow one process to have the recorder or player open at a time, it is a
good idea to open the device only for the activity needed.  Further, some
sound cards are half-duplex: they can be opened for reading or writing, but
not both at once.
Note the unusual calling syntax: the first argument is optional, and the
second is required.  This is a historical artifact for compatibility with the
older  module which  supersedes.



([device])¶
Open a mixer device and return an OSS mixer device object.   device is the
mixer device filename to use.  If it is not specified, this module first looks
in the environment variable  for a device to use.  If not
found, it falls back to .


Audio Device Objects¶
Before you can write to or read from an audio device, you must call three
methods in the correct order:

 to set the output format
 to set the number of channels
 to set the sample rate

Alternately, you can use the  method to set all three audio
parameters at once.  This is more convenient, but may not be as flexible in all
cases.
The audio device objects returned by  define the following methods
and (read-only) attributes:


()¶
Explicitly close the audio device.  When you are done writing to or reading from
an audio device, you should explicitly close it.  A closed device cannot be used
again.



()¶
Return the file descriptor associated with the device.



(size)¶
Read size bytes from the audio input and return them as a Python string.
Unlike most Unix device drivers, OSS audio devices in blocking mode (the
default) will block  until the entire requested amount of data is
available.



(data)¶
Write a bytes-like object data to the audio device and return the
number of bytes written.  If the audio device is in blocking mode (the
default), the entire data is always written (again, this is different from
usual Unix device semantics).  If the device is in non-blocking mode, some
data may not be written—see .

Changed in version 3.5: Writable bytes-like object is now accepted.




(data)¶
Write a bytes-like object data to the audio device: waits until
the audio device is able to accept data, writes as much data as it will
accept, and repeats until data has been completely written. If the device
is in blocking mode (the default), this has the same effect as
;  is only useful in non-blocking mode.  Has
no return value, since the amount of data written is always equal to the
amount of data supplied.

Changed in version 3.5: Writable bytes-like object is now accepted.



Changed in version 3.2: Audio device objects also support the context management protocol, i.e. they can
be used in a  statement.

The following methods each map to exactly one  system call.  The
correspondence is obvious: for example,  corresponds to the
 ioctl, and  to  (this can
be useful when consulting the OSS documentation).  If the underlying
 fails, they all raise .


()¶
Put the device into non-blocking mode.  Once in non-blocking mode, there is no
way to return it to blocking mode.



()¶
Return a bitmask of the audio output formats supported by the soundcard.  Some
of the formats supported by OSS are:






Format
Description




a logarithmic encoding (used by Sun 
files and )


a logarithmic encoding


a 4:1 compressed format defined by the
Interactive Multimedia Association


Unsigned, 8-bit audio


Signed, 16-bit audio, little-endian byte
order (as used by Intel processors)


Signed, 16-bit audio, big-endian byte order
(as used by 68k, PowerPC, Sparc)


Signed, 8 bit audio


Unsigned, 16-bit little-endian audio


Unsigned, 16-bit big-endian audio



Consult the OSS documentation for a full list of audio formats, and note that
most devices support only a subset of these formats.  Some older devices only
support ; the most common format used today is
.



(format)¶
Try to set the current audio format to format—see  for a
list.  Returns the audio format that the device was set to, which may not be the
requested format.  May also be used to return the current audio format—do this
by passing an “audio format” of .



(nchannels)¶
Set the number of output channels to nchannels.  A value of 1 indicates
monophonic sound, 2 stereophonic.  Some devices may have more than 2 channels,
and some high-end devices may not support mono. Returns the number of channels
the device was set to.



(samplerate)¶
Try to set the audio sampling rate to samplerate samples per second.  Returns
the rate actually set.  Most sound devices don’t support arbitrary sampling
rates.  Common rates are:






Rate
Description



8000
default rate for 

11025
speech recording

22050
 

44100
CD quality audio (at 16 bits/sample and 2
channels)

96000
DVD quality audio (at 24 bits/sample)






()¶
Wait until the sound device has played every byte in its buffer.  (This happens
implicitly when the device is closed.)  The OSS documentation recommends closing
and re-opening the device rather than using .



()¶
Immediately stop playing or recording and return the device to a state where it
can accept commands.  The OSS documentation recommends closing and re-opening
the device after calling .



()¶
Tell the driver that there is likely to be a pause in the output, making it
possible for the device to handle the pause more intelligently.  You might use
this after playing a spot sound effect, before waiting for user input, or before
doing disk I/O.

The following convenience methods combine several ioctls, or one ioctl and some
simple calculations.


(format, nchannels, samplerate[, strict=False])¶
Set the key audio sampling parameters—sample format, number of channels, and
sampling rate—in one method call.  format,  nchannels, and samplerate
should be as specified in the , , and
  methods.  If strict is true,  checks to
see if each parameter was actually set to the requested value, and raises
 if not.  Returns a tuple (format, nchannels,
samplerate) indicating the parameter values that were actually set by the
device driver (i.e., the same as the return values of ,
, and ).
For example,


is equivalent to





()¶
Returns the size of the hardware buffer, in samples.



()¶
Returns the number of samples that are in the hardware buffer yet to be played.



()¶
Returns the number of samples that could be queued into the hardware buffer to
be played without blocking.

Audio device objects also support several read-only attributes:


¶
Boolean indicating whether the device has been closed.



¶
String containing the name of the device file.



¶
The I/O mode for the file, either , , or .



Mixer Device Objects¶
The mixer object provides two file-like methods:


()¶
This method closes the open mixer device file.  Any further attempts to use the
mixer after this file is closed will raise an .



()¶
Returns the file handle number of the open mixer device file.


Changed in version 3.2: Mixer objects also support the context management protocol.

The remaining methods are specific to audio mixing:


()¶
This method returns a bitmask specifying the available mixer controls (“Control”
being a specific mixable “channel”, such as  or
).  This bitmask indicates a subset of all available
mixer controls—the  constants defined at module level.
To determine if, for example, the current mixer object supports a PCM mixer, use
the following Python code:


For most purposes, the  (master volume) and
 controls should suffice—but code that uses the mixer
should be flexible when it comes to choosing mixer controls.  On the Gravis
Ultrasound, for example,  does not exist.



()¶
Returns a bitmask indicating stereo mixer controls.  If a bit is set, the
corresponding control is stereo; if it is unset, the control is either
monophonic or not supported by the mixer (use in combination with
 to determine which).
See the code example for the  function for an example of getting
data from a bitmask.



()¶
Returns a bitmask specifying the mixer controls that may be used to record.  See
the code example for  for an example of reading from a bitmask.



(control)¶
Returns the volume of a given mixer control.  The returned volume is a 2-tuple
.  Volumes are specified as numbers from 0
(silent) to 100 (full volume).  If the control is monophonic, a 2-tuple is still
returned, but both volumes are the same.
Raises  if an invalid control is specified, or
 if an unsupported control is specified.



(control, (left, right))¶
Sets the volume for a given mixer control to .  and
 must be ints and between 0 (silent) and 100 (full volume).  On
success, the new volume is returned as a 2-tuple. Note that this may not be
exactly the same as the volume specified, because of the limited resolution of
some soundcard’s mixers.
Raises  if an invalid mixer control was specified, or if the
specified volumes were out-of-range.



()¶
This method returns a bitmask indicating which control(s) are currently being
used as a recording source.



(bitmask)¶
Call this function to specify a recording source.  Returns a bitmask indicating
the new recording source (or sources) if successful; raises  if an
invalid source was specified.  To set the current recording source to the
microphone input:





