link:
library/gettext.html#the-gnutranslations-class

docs:

The  class¶
The  module provides one additional class derived from
: .  This class overrides
 to enable reading GNU gettext format  files
in both big-endian and little-endian format.
 parses optional metadata out of the translation
catalog. It is convention with GNU gettext to include metadata as
the translation for the empty string. This metadata is in RFC 822-style
 pairs, and should contain the  key.  If the
key  is found, then the  property is used to
initialize the “protected”  instance variable, defaulting to
 if not found.  If the charset encoding is specified, then all message
ids and message strings read from the catalog are converted to Unicode using
this encoding, else ASCII is assumed.
Since message ids are read as Unicode strings too, all  methods
will assume message ids as Unicode strings, not byte strings.
The entire set of key/value pairs are placed into a dictionary and set as the
“protected”  instance variable.
If the  file’s magic number is invalid, the major version number is
unexpected, or if other problems occur while reading the file, instantiating a
 class can raise .


class ¶
The following methods are overridden from the base class implementation:


(message)¶
Look up the message id in the catalog and return the corresponding message
string, as a Unicode string.  If there is no entry in the catalog for the
message id, and a fallback has been set, the look up is forwarded to the
fallback’s  method.  Otherwise, the
message id is returned.



(singular, plural, n)¶
Do a plural-forms lookup of a message id.  singular is used as the message id
for purposes of lookup in the catalog, while n is used to determine which
plural form to use.  The returned message string is a Unicode string.
If the message id is not found in the catalog, and a fallback is specified,
the request is forwarded to the fallback’s 
method.  Otherwise, when n is 1 singular is returned, and plural is
returned in all other cases.
Here is an example:





(message)¶



(singular, plural, n)¶
Equivalent to  and , but the translation
is returned as a byte string encoded in the preferred system encoding
if no encoding  was explicitly set with
.

Warning
These methods should be avoided in Python 3.  See the warning for the
 function.



