link:
library/turtle.html#turtle-motion

docs:

Turtle motion¶


(distance)¶

(distance)¶




Parameters:distance – a number (integer or float)



Move the turtle forward by the specified distance, in the direction the
turtle is headed.





(distance)¶

(distance)¶

(distance)¶




Parameters:distance – a number



Move the turtle backward by distance, opposite to the direction the
turtle is headed.  Do not change the turtle’s heading.





(angle)¶

(angle)¶




Parameters:angle – a number (integer or float)



Turn turtle right by angle units.  (Units are by default degrees, but
can be set via the  and  functions.)  Angle
orientation depends on the turtle mode, see .





(angle)¶

(angle)¶




Parameters:angle – a number (integer or float)



Turn turtle left by angle units.  (Units are by default degrees, but
can be set via the  and  functions.)  Angle
orientation depends on the turtle mode, see .





(x, y=None)¶

(x, y=None)¶

(x, y=None)¶




Parameters:
x – a number or a pair/vector of numbers
y – a number or 





If y is , x must be a pair of coordinates or a 
(e.g. as returned by ).
Move turtle to an absolute position.  If the pen is down, draw line.  Do
not change the turtle’s orientation.





(x)¶




Parameters:x – a number (integer or float)



Set the turtle’s first coordinate to x, leave second coordinate
unchanged.





(y)¶




Parameters:y – a number (integer or float)



Set the turtle’s second coordinate to y, leave first coordinate unchanged.





(to_angle)¶

(to_angle)¶




Parameters:to_angle – a number (integer or float)



Set the orientation of the turtle to to_angle.  Here are some common
directions in degrees:






standard mode
logo mode



0 - east
0 - north

90 - north
90 - east

180 - west
180 - south

270 - south
270 - west








()¶
Move turtle to the origin – coordinates (0,0) – and set its heading to
its start-orientation (which depends on the mode, see ).





(radius, extent=None, steps=None)¶




Parameters:
radius – a number
extent – a number (or )
steps – an integer (or )





Draw a circle with given radius.  The center is radius units left of
the turtle; extent – an angle – determines which part of the circle
is drawn.  If extent is not given, draw the entire circle.  If extent
is not a full circle, one endpoint of the arc is the current pen
position.  Draw the arc in counterclockwise direction if radius is
positive, otherwise in clockwise direction.  Finally the direction of the
turtle is changed by the amount of extent.
As the circle is approximated by an inscribed regular polygon, steps
determines the number of steps to use.  If not given, it will be
calculated automatically.  May be used to draw regular polygons.





(size=None, *color)¶




Parameters:
size – an integer >= 1 (if given)
color – a colorstring or a numeric color tuple





Draw a circular dot with diameter size, using color.  If size is
not given, the maximum of pensize+4 and 2*pensize is used.





()¶
Stamp a copy of the turtle shape onto the canvas at the current turtle
position.  Return a stamp_id for that stamp, which can be used to delete
it by calling .





(stampid)¶




Parameters:stampid – an integer, must be return value of previous
 call



Delete stamp with given stampid.





(n=None)¶




Parameters:n – an integer (or )



Delete all or first/last n of turtle’s stamps.  If n is , delete
all stamps, if n > 0 delete first n stamps, else if n < 0 delete
last n stamps.





()¶
Undo (repeatedly) the last turtle action(s).  Number of available
undo actions is determined by the size of the undobuffer.





(speed=None)¶




Parameters:speed – an integer in the range 0..10 or a speedstring (see below)



Set the turtle’s speed to an integer value in the range 0..10.  If no
argument is given, return current speed.
If input is a number greater than 10 or smaller than 0.5, speed is set
to 0.  Speedstrings are mapped to speedvalues as follows:

“fastest”:  0
“fast”:  10
“normal”:  6
“slow”:  3
“slowest”:  1

Speeds from 1 to 10 enforce increasingly faster animation of line drawing
and turtle turning.
Attention: speed = 0 means that no animation takes
place. forward/back makes turtle jump and likewise left/right make the
turtle turn instantly.



