link:
library/turtle.html#pen-control

docs:

Pen control¶

Drawing state¶


()¶

()¶

()¶
Pull the pen down – drawing when moving.



()¶

()¶

()¶
Pull the pen up – no drawing when moving.



(width=None)¶

(width=None)¶




Parameters:width – a positive number



Set the line thickness to width or return it.  If resizemode is set to
“auto” and turtleshape is a polygon, that polygon is drawn with the same line
thickness.  If no argument is given, the current pensize is returned.





(pen=None, **pendict)¶




Parameters:
pen – a dictionary with some or all of the below listed keys
pendict – one or more keyword-arguments with the below listed keys as keywords





Return or set the pen’s attributes in a “pen-dictionary” with the following
key/value pairs:

“shown”: True/False
“pendown”: True/False
“pencolor”: color-string or color-tuple
“fillcolor”: color-string or color-tuple
“pensize”: positive number
“speed”: number in range 0..10
“resizemode”: “auto” or “user” or “noresize”
“stretchfactor”: (positive number, positive number)
“outline”: positive number
“tilt”: number

This dictionary can be used as argument for a subsequent call to 
to restore the former pen-state.  Moreover one or more of these attributes
can be provided as keyword-arguments.  This can be used to set several pen
attributes in one statement.





()¶
Return  if pen is down,  if it’s up.





Color control¶


(*args)¶
Return or set the pencolor.
Four input formats are allowed:


Return the current pencolor as color specification string or
as a tuple (see example).  May be used as input to another
color/pencolor/fillcolor call.

Set pencolor to colorstring, which is a Tk color specification string,
such as , , or .

Set pencolor to the RGB color represented by the tuple of r, g, and
b.  Each of r, g, and b must be in the range 0..colormode, where
colormode is either 1.0 or 255 (see ).


Set pencolor to the RGB color represented by r, g, and b.  Each of
r, g, and b must be in the range 0..colormode.
If turtleshape is a polygon, the outline of that polygon is drawn with the
newly set pencolor.







(*args)¶
Return or set the fillcolor.
Four input formats are allowed:


Return the current fillcolor as color specification string, possibly
in tuple format (see example).  May be used as input to another
color/pencolor/fillcolor call.

Set fillcolor to colorstring, which is a Tk color specification string,
such as , , or .

Set fillcolor to the RGB color represented by the tuple of r, g, and
b.  Each of r, g, and b must be in the range 0..colormode, where
colormode is either 1.0 or 255 (see ).


Set fillcolor to the RGB color represented by r, g, and b.  Each of
r, g, and b must be in the range 0..colormode.
If turtleshape is a polygon, the interior of that polygon is drawn
with the newly set fillcolor.







(*args)¶
Return or set pencolor and fillcolor.
Several input formats are allowed.  They use 0 to 3 arguments as
follows:


Return the current pencolor and the current fillcolor as a pair of color
specification strings or tuples as returned by  and
.
, , 
Inputs as in , set both, fillcolor and pencolor, to the
given value.
, 

Equivalent to  and 
and analogously if the other input format is used.
If turtleshape is a polygon, outline and interior of that polygon is drawn
with the newly set colors.





See also: Screen method .


Filling¶


()¶
Return fillstate ( if filling,  else).





()¶
To be called just before drawing a shape to be filled.



()¶
Fill the shape drawn after the last call to .





More drawing control¶


()¶
Delete the turtle’s drawings from the screen, re-center the turtle and set
variables to the default values.





()¶
Delete the turtle’s drawings from the screen.  Do not move turtle.  State and
position of the turtle as well as drawings of other turtles are not affected.



(arg, move=False, align="left", font=("Arial", 8, "normal"))¶




Parameters:
arg – object to be written to the TurtleScreen
move – True/False
align – one of the strings “left”, “center” or right”
font – a triple (fontname, fontsize, fonttype)





Write text - the string representation of arg - at the current turtle
position according to align (“left”, “center” or right”) and with the given
font.  If move is true, the pen is moved to the bottom-right corner of the
text.  By default, move is .




