link:
library/turtle.html#color-control

docs:

Color control¶


(*args)¶
Return or set the pencolor.
Four input formats are allowed:


Return the current pencolor as color specification string or
as a tuple (see example).  May be used as input to another
color/pencolor/fillcolor call.

Set pencolor to colorstring, which is a Tk color specification string,
such as , , or .

Set pencolor to the RGB color represented by the tuple of r, g, and
b.  Each of r, g, and b must be in the range 0..colormode, where
colormode is either 1.0 or 255 (see ).


Set pencolor to the RGB color represented by r, g, and b.  Each of
r, g, and b must be in the range 0..colormode.
If turtleshape is a polygon, the outline of that polygon is drawn with the
newly set pencolor.







(*args)¶
Return or set the fillcolor.
Four input formats are allowed:


Return the current fillcolor as color specification string, possibly
in tuple format (see example).  May be used as input to another
color/pencolor/fillcolor call.

Set fillcolor to colorstring, which is a Tk color specification string,
such as , , or .

Set fillcolor to the RGB color represented by the tuple of r, g, and
b.  Each of r, g, and b must be in the range 0..colormode, where
colormode is either 1.0 or 255 (see ).


Set fillcolor to the RGB color represented by r, g, and b.  Each of
r, g, and b must be in the range 0..colormode.
If turtleshape is a polygon, the interior of that polygon is drawn
with the newly set fillcolor.







(*args)¶
Return or set pencolor and fillcolor.
Several input formats are allowed.  They use 0 to 3 arguments as
follows:


Return the current pencolor and the current fillcolor as a pair of color
specification strings or tuples as returned by  and
.
, , 
Inputs as in , set both, fillcolor and pencolor, to the
given value.
, 

Equivalent to  and 
and analogously if the other input format is used.
If turtleshape is a polygon, outline and interior of that polygon is drawn
with the newly set colors.





See also: Screen method .
