link:
library/turtle.html#turtle-state

docs:

Turtle state¶

Visibility¶


()¶

()¶
Make the turtle invisible.  It’s a good idea to do this while you’re in the
middle of doing some complex drawing, because hiding the turtle speeds up the
drawing observably.





()¶

()¶
Make the turtle visible.





()¶
Return  if the Turtle is shown,  if it’s hidden.





Appearance¶


(name=None)¶




Parameters:name – a string which is a valid shapename



Set turtle shape to shape with given name or, if name is not given, return
name of current shape.  Shape with name must exist in the TurtleScreen’s
shape dictionary.  Initially there are the following polygon shapes: “arrow”,
“turtle”, “circle”, “square”, “triangle”, “classic”.  To learn about how to
deal with shapes see Screen method .





(rmode=None)¶




Parameters:rmode – one of the strings “auto”, “user”, “noresize”



Set resizemode to one of the values: “auto”, “user”, “noresize”.  If rmode
is not given, return current resizemode.  Different resizemodes have the
following effects:

“auto”: adapts the appearance of the turtle corresponding to the value of pensize.
“user”: adapts the appearance of the turtle according to the values of
stretchfactor and outlinewidth (outline), which are set by
.
“noresize”: no adaption of the turtle’s appearance takes place.

resizemode(“user”) is called by  when used with arguments.





(stretch_wid=None, stretch_len=None, outline=None)¶

(stretch_wid=None, stretch_len=None, outline=None)¶




Parameters:
stretch_wid – positive number
stretch_len – positive number
outline – positive number





Return or set the pen’s attributes x/y-stretchfactors and/or outline.  Set
resizemode to “user”.  If and only if resizemode is set to “user”, the turtle
will be displayed stretched according to its stretchfactors: stretch_wid is
stretchfactor perpendicular to its orientation, stretch_len is
stretchfactor in direction of its orientation, outline determines the width
of the shapes’s outline.





(shear=None)¶




Parameters:shear – number (optional)



Set or return the current shearfactor. Shear the turtleshape according to
the given shearfactor shear, which is the tangent of the shear angle.
Do not change the turtle’s heading (direction of movement).
If shear is not given: return the current shearfactor, i. e. the
tangent of the shear angle, by which lines parallel to the
heading of the turtle are sheared.





(angle)¶




Parameters:angle – a number



Rotate the turtleshape by angle from its current tilt-angle, but do not
change the turtle’s heading (direction of movement).





(angle)¶




Parameters:angle – a number



Rotate the turtleshape to point in the direction specified by angle,
regardless of its current tilt-angle.  Do not change the turtle’s heading
(direction of movement).



Deprecated since version 3.1.




(angle=None)¶




Parameters:angle – a number (optional)



Set or return the current tilt-angle. If angle is given, rotate the
turtleshape to point in the direction specified by angle,
regardless of its current tilt-angle. Do not change the turtle’s
heading (direction of movement).
If angle is not given: return the current tilt-angle, i. e. the angle
between the orientation of the turtleshape and the heading of the
turtle (its direction of movement).





(t11=None, t12=None, t21=None, t22=None)¶




Parameters:
t11 – a number (optional)
t12 – a number (optional)
t21 – a number (optional)
t12 – a number (optional)





Set or return the current transformation matrix of the turtle shape.
If none of the matrix elements are given, return the transformation
matrix as a tuple of 4 elements.
Otherwise set the given elements and transform the turtleshape
according to the matrix consisting of first row t11, t12 and
second row t21, 22. The determinant t11 * t22 - t12 * t21 must not be
zero, otherwise an error is raised.
Modify stretchfactor, shearfactor and tiltangle according to the
given matrix.





()¶
Return the current shape polygon as tuple of coordinate pairs. This
can be used to define a new shape or components of a compound shape.




