link:
library/re.html#match-objects

docs:

Match Objects¶
Match objects always have a boolean value of .
Since  and  return 
when there is no match, you can test whether there was a match with a simple
 statement:


Match objects support the following methods and attributes:


(template)¶
Return the string obtained by doing backslash substitution on the template
string template, as done by the  method.
Escapes such as  are converted to the appropriate characters,
and numeric backreferences (, ) and named backreferences
(, ) are replaced by the contents of the
corresponding group.

Changed in version 3.5: Unmatched groups are replaced with an empty string.




([group1, ...])¶
Returns one or more subgroups of the match.  If there is a single argument, the
result is a single string; if there are multiple arguments, the result is a
tuple with one item per argument. Without arguments, group1 defaults to zero
(the whole match is returned). If a groupN argument is zero, the corresponding
return value is the entire matching string; if it is in the inclusive range
[1..99], it is the string matching the corresponding parenthesized group.  If a
group number is negative or larger than the number of groups defined in the
pattern, an  exception is raised. If a group is contained in a
part of the pattern that did not match, the corresponding result is .
If a group is contained in a part of the pattern that matched multiple times,
the last match is returned.


If the regular expression uses the  syntax, the groupN
arguments may also be strings identifying groups by their group name.  If a
string argument is not used as a group name in the pattern, an 
exception is raised.
A moderately complicated example:


Named groups can also be referred to by their index:


If a group matches multiple times, only the last match is accessible:





(g)¶
This is identical to .  This allows easier access to
an individual group from a match:



New in version 3.6.




(default=None)¶
Return a tuple containing all the subgroups of the match, from 1 up to however
many groups are in the pattern.  The default argument is used for groups that
did not participate in the match; it defaults to .
For example:


If we make the decimal place and everything after it optional, not all groups
might participate in the match.  These groups will default to  unless
the default argument is given:





(default=None)¶
Return a dictionary containing all the named subgroups of the match, keyed by
the subgroup name.  The default argument is used for groups that did not
participate in the match; it defaults to .  For example:





([group])¶

([group])¶
Return the indices of the start and end of the substring matched by group;
group defaults to zero (meaning the whole matched substring). Return  if
group exists but did not contribute to the match.  For a match object m, and
a group g that did contribute to the match, the substring matched by group g
(equivalent to ) is


Note that  will equal  if group matched a
null string.  For example, after ,
 is 1,  is 2,  and  are both
2, and  raises an  exception.
An example that will remove remove_this from email addresses:





([group])¶
For a match m, return the 2-tuple . Note
that if group did not contribute to the match, this is .
group defaults to zero, the entire match.



¶
The value of pos which was passed to the  or
 method of a regex object.  This is
the index into the string at which the RE engine started looking for a match.



¶
The value of endpos which was passed to the  or
 method of a regex object.  This is
the index into the string beyond which the RE engine will not go.



¶
The integer index of the last matched capturing group, or  if no group
was matched at all. For example, the expressions , , and
 will have  if applied to the string , while
the expression  will have , if applied to the same
string.



¶
The name of the last matched capturing group, or  if the group didn’t
have a name, or if no group was matched at all.



¶
The regular expression object whose  or
 method produced this match instance.



¶
The string passed to  or .


Changed in version 3.7: Added support of  and .  Match objects
are considered atomic.

