link:
library/cmd.html#cmd.Cmd.cmdloop

docs:


(intro=None)¶
Repeatedly issue a prompt, accept input, parse an initial prefix off the
received input, and dispatch to action methods, passing them the remainder of
the line as argument.
The optional argument is a banner or intro string to be issued before the first
prompt (this overrides the  class attribute).
If the  module is loaded, input will automatically inherit
bash-like history-list editing (e.g. Control-P scrolls back
to the last command, Control-N forward to the next one, Control-F
moves the cursor to the right non-destructively, Control-B moves the
cursor to the left non-destructively, etc.).
An end-of-file on input is passed back as the string .
An interpreter instance will recognize a command name  if and only if it
has a method .  As a special case, a line beginning with the
character  is dispatched to the method .  As another
special case, a line beginning with the character  is dispatched to the
method  (if such a method is defined).
This method will return when the  method returns a true value.
The stop argument to  is the return value from the command’s
corresponding  method.
If completion is enabled, completing commands will be done automatically, and
completing of commands args is done by calling  with
arguments text, line, begidx, and endidx.  text is the string prefix
we are attempting to match: all returned matches must begin with it. line is
the current input line with leading whitespace removed, begidx and endidx
are the beginning and ending indexes of the prefix text, which could be used to
provide different completion depending upon which position the argument is in.
All subclasses of  inherit a predefined .  This
method, called with an argument , invokes the corresponding method
, and if that is not present, prints the docstring of
, if available.  With no argument,  lists all
available help topics (that is, all commands with corresponding
 methods or commands that have docstrings), and also lists any
undocumented commands.
