link:
library/tkinter.html#tk-option-data-types

docs:

Tk Option Data Types¶

anchor
Legal values are points of the compass: , , , ,
, , , , and also .
bitmap
There are eight built-in, named bitmaps: , ,
, , , , ,
.  To specify an X bitmap filename, give the full path to the file,
preceded with an , as in .
boolean
You can pass integers 0 or 1 or the strings  or .
callback
This is any Python function that takes no arguments.  For example:



color
Colors can be given as the names of X colors in the rgb.txt file, or as strings
representing RGB values in 4 bit: , 8 bit: , 12 bit”
, or 16 bit  ranges, where R,G,B here
represent any legal hex digit.  See page 160 of Ousterhout’s book for details.
cursor
The standard X cursor names from  can be used, without the
 prefix.  For example to get a hand cursor (), use the
string .  You can also specify a bitmap and mask file of your own.
See page 179 of Ousterhout’s book.
distance
Screen distances can be specified in either pixels or absolute distances.
Pixels are given as numbers and absolute distances as strings, with the trailing
character denoting units:  for centimetres,  for inches,  for
millimetres,  for printer’s points.  For example, 3.5 inches is expressed
as .
font
Tk uses a list font name format, such as . Font sizes with
positive numbers are measured in points; sizes with negative numbers are
measured in pixels.
geometry
This is a string of the form , where width and height are
measured in pixels for most widgets (in characters for widgets displaying text).
For example: .
justify
Legal values are the strings: , , , and
.
region
This is a string with four space-delimited elements, each of which is a legal
distance (see above).  For example:  and  and
  are all legal regions.
relief
Determines what the border style of a widget will be.  Legal values are:
, , , , and .
scrollcommand
This is almost always the  method of some scrollbar widget, but can
be any widget method that takes a single argument.
wrap:
Must be one of: , , or .

