link:
library/tkinter.ttk.html#ttk-notebook

docs:

ttk.Notebook¶


class ¶


(child, **kw)¶
Adds a new tab to the notebook.
If window is currently managed by the notebook but hidden, it is
restored to its previous position.
See Tab Options for the list of available options.



(tab_id)¶
Removes the tab specified by tab_id, unmaps and unmanages the
associated window.



(tab_id)¶
Hides the tab specified by tab_id.
The tab will not be displayed, but the associated window remains
managed by the notebook and its configuration remembered. Hidden tabs
may be restored with the  command.



(x, y)¶
Returns the name of the tab element at position x, y, or the empty
string if none.



(tab_id)¶
Returns the numeric index of the tab specified by tab_id, or the total
number of tabs if tab_id is the string “end”.



(pos, child, **kw)¶
Inserts a pane at the specified position.
pos is either the string “end”, an integer index, or the name of a
managed child. If child is already managed by the notebook, moves it to
the specified position.
See Tab Options for the list of available options.



(tab_id=None)¶
Selects the specified tab_id.
The associated child window will be displayed, and the
previously-selected window (if different) is unmapped. If tab_id is
omitted, returns the widget name of the currently selected pane.



(tab_id, option=None, **kw)¶
Query or modify the options of the specific tab_id.
If kw is not given, returns a dictionary of the tab option values. If
option is specified, returns the value of that option. Otherwise,
sets the options to the corresponding values.



()¶
Returns a list of windows managed by the notebook.



()¶
Enable keyboard traversal for a toplevel window containing this notebook.
This will extend the bindings for the toplevel window containing the
notebook as follows:

Control-Tab: selects the tab following the currently selected one.
Shift-Control-Tab: selects the tab preceding the currently selected one.
Alt-K: where K is the mnemonic (underlined) character of any tab, will
select that tab.

Multiple notebooks in a single toplevel may be enabled for traversal,
including nested notebooks. However, notebook traversal only works
properly if all panes have the notebook they are in as master.


