link:
library/tkinter.tix.html#tix-commands

docs:

Tix Commands¶


class ¶
The tix commands provide
access to miscellaneous elements of ’s internal state and the
 application context.  Most of the information manipulated by these
methods pertains to the application as a whole, or to a screen or display,
rather than to a particular window.
To view the current settings, the common usage is:





(cnf=None, **kw)¶
Query or modify the configuration options of the Tix application context. If no
option is specified, returns a dictionary all of the available options.  If
option is specified with no value, then the method returns a list describing the
one named option (this list will be identical to the corresponding sublist of
the value returned if no option is specified).  If one or more option-value
pairs are specified, then the method modifies the given option(s) to have the
given value(s); in this case the method returns an empty string. Option may be
any of the configuration options.



(option)¶
Returns the current value of the configuration option given by option. Option
may be any of the configuration options.



(name)¶
Locates a bitmap file of the name  or  in one of the bitmap
directories (see the  method).  By using
, you can avoid hard coding the pathnames of the bitmap
files in your application. When successful, it returns the complete pathname of
the bitmap file, prefixed with the character .  The returned value can be
used to configure the  option of the Tk and Tix widgets.



(directory)¶
Tix maintains a list of directories under which the  and
 methods will search for image files.  The standard bitmap
directory is . The  method
adds directory into this list. By using this method, the image files of an
applications can also be located using the  or
 method.



([dlgclass])¶
Returns the file selection dialog that may be shared among different calls from
this application.  This method will create a file selection dialog widget when
it is called the first time. This dialog will be returned by all subsequent
calls to .  An optional dlgclass parameter can be passed
as a string to specified what type of file selection dialog widget is desired.
Possible options are ,  or .



(self, name)¶
Locates an image file of the name ,  or
 in one of the bitmap directories (see the
 method above). If more than one file with the same name
(but different extensions) exist, then the image type is chosen according to the
depth of the X display: xbm images are chosen on monochrome displays and color
images are chosen on color displays. By using , you can
avoid hard coding the pathnames of the image files in your application. When
successful, this method returns the name of the newly created image, which can
be used to configure the  option of the Tk and Tix widgets.



(name)¶
Gets the options maintained by the Tix scheme mechanism.



(newScheme, newFontSet[, newScmPrio])¶
Resets the scheme and fontset of the Tix application to newScheme and
newFontSet, respectively.  This affects only those widgets created after this
call.  Therefore, it is best to call the resetoptions method before the creation
of any widgets in a Tix application.
The optional parameter newScmPrio can be given to reset the priority level of
the Tk options set by the Tix schemes.
Because of the way Tk handles the X option database, after Tix has been has
imported and inited, it is not possible to reset the color schemes and font sets
using the  method. Instead, the 
method must be used.

