link:
library/idle.html#completions

docs:

Completions¶
Completions are supplied for functions, classes, and attributes of classes,
both built-in and user-defined. Completions are also provided for
filenames.
The AutoCompleteWindow (ACW) will open after a predefined delay (default is
two seconds) after a ‘.’ or (in a string) an os.sep is typed. If after one
of those characters (plus zero or more other characters) a tab is typed
the ACW will open immediately if a possible continuation is found.
If there is only one possible completion for the characters entered, a
Tab will supply that completion without opening the ACW.
‘Show Completions’ will force open a completions window, by default the
C-space will open a completions window. In an empty
string, this will contain the files in the current directory. On a
blank line, it will contain the built-in and user-defined functions and
classes in the current namespaces, plus any modules imported. If some
characters have been entered, the ACW will attempt to be more specific.
If a string of characters is typed, the ACW selection will jump to the
entry most closely matching those characters.  Entering a tab will
cause the longest non-ambiguous match to be entered in the Editor window or
Shell.  Two tab in a row will supply the current ACW selection, as
will return or a double click.  Cursor keys, Page Up/Down, mouse selection,
and the scroll wheel all operate on the ACW.
“Hidden” attributes can be accessed by typing the beginning of hidden
name after a ‘.’, e.g. ‘_’. This allows access to modules with
 set, or to class-private attributes.
Completions and the ‘Expand Word’ facility can save a lot of typing!
Completions are currently limited to those in the namespaces. Names in
an Editor window which are not via  and  will
not be found.  Run the module once with your imports to correct this situation.
Note that IDLE itself places quite a few modules in sys.modules, so
much can be found by default, e.g. the re module.
If you don’t like the ACW popping up unbidden, simply make the delay
longer or disable the extension.
