link:
library/idle.html#startup-failure

docs:

Startup failure¶
IDLE uses a socket to communicate between the IDLE GUI process and the user
code execution process.  A connection must be established whenever the Shell
starts or restarts.  (The latter is indicated by a divider line that says
‘RESTART’). If the user process fails to connect to the GUI process, it
displays a  error box with a ‘cannot connect’ message that directs the
user here.  It then exits.
A common cause of failure is a user-written file with the same name as a
standard library module, such as random.py and tkinter.py. When such a
file is located in the same directory as a file that is about to be run,
IDLE cannot import the stdlib file.  The current fix is to rename the
user file.
Though less common than in the past, an antivirus or firewall program may
stop the connection.  If the program cannot be taught to allow the
connection, then it must be turned off for IDLE to work.  It is safe to
allow this internal connection because no data is visible on external
ports.  A similar problem is a network mis-configuration that blocks
connections.
Python installation issues occasionally stop IDLE: multiple versions can
clash, or a single installation might need admin access.  If one undo the
clash, or cannot or does not want to run as admin, it might be easiest to
completely remove Python and start over.
A zombie pythonw.exe process could be a problem.  On Windows, use Task
Manager to detect and stop one.  Sometimes a restart initiated by a program
crash or Keyboard Interrupt (control-C) may fail to connect.  Dismissing
the error box or Restart Shell on the Shell menu may fix a temporary problem.
When IDLE first starts, it attempts to read user configuration files in
~/.idlerc/ (~ is one’s home directory).  If there is a problem, an error
message should be displayed.  Leaving aside random disk glitches, this can
be prevented by never editing the files by hand, using the configuration
dialog, under Options, instead Options.  Once it happens, the solution may
be to delete one or more of the configuration files.
If IDLE quits with no message, and it was not started from a console, try
starting from a console ( and see if a message appears.
