link:
library/difflib.html#difflib.HtmlDiff

docs:


class ¶
This class can be used to create an HTML table (or a complete HTML file
containing the table) showing a side by side, line by line comparison of text
with inter-line and intra-line change highlights.  The table can be generated in
either full or contextual difference mode.
The constructor for this class is:


(tabsize=8, wrapcolumn=None, linejunk=None, charjunk=IS_CHARACTER_JUNK)¶
Initializes instance of .
tabsize is an optional keyword argument to specify tab stop spacing and
defaults to .
wrapcolumn is an optional keyword to specify column number where lines are
broken and wrapped, defaults to  where lines are not wrapped.
linejunk and charjunk are optional keyword arguments passed into 
(used by  to generate the side by side HTML differences).  See
 documentation for argument default values and descriptions.

The following methods are public:


(fromlines, tolines, fromdesc='', todesc='', context=False, numlines=5, *, charset='utf-8')¶
Compares fromlines and tolines (lists of strings) and returns a string which
is a complete HTML file containing a table showing line by line differences with
inter-line and intra-line changes highlighted.
fromdesc and todesc are optional keyword arguments to specify from/to file
column header strings (both default to an empty string).
context and numlines are both optional keyword arguments. Set context to
 when contextual differences are to be shown, else the default is
 to show the full files. numlines defaults to .  When context
is  numlines controls the number of context lines which surround the
difference highlights.  When context is  numlines controls the
number of lines which are shown before a difference highlight when using the
“next” hyperlinks (setting to zero would cause the “next” hyperlinks to place
the next difference highlight at the top of the browser without any leading
context).

Changed in version 3.5: charset keyword-only argument was added.  The default charset of
HTML document changed from  to .




(fromlines, tolines, fromdesc='', todesc='', context=False, numlines=5)¶
Compares fromlines and tolines (lists of strings) and returns a string which
is a complete HTML table showing line by line differences with inter-line and
intra-line changes highlighted.
The arguments for this method are the same as those for the 
method.

 is a command-line front-end to this class and
contains a good example of its use.
