link:
library/idle.html#user-output-in-shell

docs:

User output in Shell¶
When a program outputs text, the result is determined by the
corresponding output device.  When IDLE executes user code, 
and  are connected to the display area of IDLE’s Shell.  Some of
its features are inherited from the underlying Tk Text widget.  Others
are programmed additions.  Where it matters, Shell is designed for development
rather than production runs.
For instance, Shell never throws away output.  A program that sends unlimited
output to Shell will eventually fill memory, resulting in a memory error.
In contrast, some system text windows only keep the last n lines of output.
A Windows console, for instance, keeps a user-settable 1 to 9999 lines,
with 300 the default.
A Tk Text widget, and hence IDLE’s Shell, displays characters (codepoints) in
the BMP (Basic Multilingual Plane) subset of Unicode.  Which characters are
displayed with a proper glyph and which with a replacement box depends on the
operating system and installed fonts.  Tab characters cause the following text
to begin after the next tab stop. (They occur every 8 ‘characters’).  Newline
characters cause following text to appear on a new line.  Other control
characters are ignored or displayed as a space, box, or something else,
depending on the operating system and font.  (Moving the text cursor through
such output with arrow keys may exhibit some surprising spacing behavior.)


The  function is used for interactive echo of expression
values.  It returns an altered version of the input string in which
control codes, some BMP codepoints, and all non-BMP codepoints are
replaced with escape codes. As demonstrated above, it allows one to
identify the characters in a string, regardless of how they are displayed.
Normal and error output are generally kept separate (on separate lines)
from code input and each other.  They each get different highlight colors.
For SyntaxError tracebacks, the normal ‘^’ marking where the error was
detected is replaced by coloring the text with an error highlight.
When code run from a file causes other exceptions, one may right click
on a traceback line to jump to the corresponding line in an IDLE editor.
The file will be opened if necessary.
Shell has a special facility for squeezing output lines down to a
‘Squeezed text’ label.  This is done automatically
for output over N lines (N = 50 by default).
N can be changed in the PyShell section of the General
page of the Settings dialog.  Output with fewer lines can be squeezed by
right clicking on the output.  This can be useful lines long enough to slow
down scrolling.
Squeezed output is expanded in place by double-clicking the label.
It can also be sent to the clipboard or a separate view window by
right-clicking the label.
