link:
library/doctest.html#unittest-api

docs:

Unittest API¶
As your collection of doctest’ed modules grows, you’ll want a way to run all
their doctests systematically.   provides two functions that can
be used to create  test suites from modules and text files
containing doctests.  To integrate with  test discovery, include
a  function in your test module:


There are two main functions for creating  instances
from text files and modules with doctests:


(*paths, module_relative=True, package=None, setUp=None, tearDown=None, globs=None, optionflags=0, parser=DocTestParser(), encoding=None)¶
Convert doctest tests from one or more text files to a
.
The returned  is to be run by the unittest framework
and runs the interactive examples in each file.  If an example in any file
fails, then the synthesized unit test fails, and a 
exception is raised showing the name of the file containing the test and a
(sometimes approximate) line number.
Pass one or more paths (as strings) to text files to be examined.
Options may be provided as keyword arguments:
Optional argument module_relative specifies how the filenames in paths
should be interpreted:

If module_relative is  (the default), then each filename in
paths specifies an OS-independent module-relative path.  By default, this
path is relative to the calling module’s directory; but if the package
argument is specified, then it is relative to that package.  To ensure
OS-independence, each filename should use  characters to separate path
segments, and may not be an absolute path (i.e., it may not begin with
).
If module_relative is , then each filename in paths specifies
an OS-specific path.  The path may be absolute or relative; relative paths
are resolved with respect to the current working directory.

Optional argument package is a Python package or the name of a Python
package whose directory should be used as the base directory for
module-relative filenames in paths.  If no package is specified, then the
calling module’s directory is used as the base directory for module-relative
filenames.  It is an error to specify package if module_relative is
.
Optional argument setUp specifies a set-up function for the test suite.
This is called before running the tests in each file.  The setUp function
will be passed a  object.  The setUp function can access the
test globals as the globs attribute of the test passed.
Optional argument tearDown specifies a tear-down function for the test
suite.  This is called after running the tests in each file.  The tearDown
function will be passed a  object.  The setUp function can
access the test globals as the globs attribute of the test passed.
Optional argument globs is a dictionary containing the initial global
variables for the tests.  A new copy of this dictionary is created for each
test.  By default, globs is a new empty dictionary.
Optional argument optionflags specifies the default doctest options for the
tests, created by or-ing together individual option flags.  See section
Option Flags. See function  below
for a better way to set reporting options.
Optional argument parser specifies a  (or subclass)
that should be used to extract tests from the files.  It defaults to a normal
parser (i.e., ).
Optional argument encoding specifies an encoding that should be used to
convert the file to unicode.
The global  is added to the globals provided to doctests loaded
from a text file using .



(module=None, globs=None, extraglobs=None, test_finder=None, setUp=None, tearDown=None, checker=None)¶
Convert doctest tests for a module to a .
The returned  is to be run by the unittest framework
and runs each doctest in the module.  If any of the doctests fail, then the
synthesized unit test fails, and a  exception is raised
showing the name of the file containing the test and a (sometimes approximate)
line number.
Optional argument module provides the module to be tested.  It can be a module
object or a (possibly dotted) module name.  If not specified, the module calling
this function is used.
Optional argument globs is a dictionary containing the initial global
variables for the tests.  A new copy of this dictionary is created for each
test.  By default, globs is a new empty dictionary.
Optional argument extraglobs specifies an extra set of global variables, which
is merged into globs.  By default, no extra globals are used.
Optional argument test_finder is the  object (or a
drop-in replacement) that is used to extract doctests from the module.
Optional arguments setUp, tearDown, and optionflags are the same as for
function  above.
This function uses the same search technique as .

Changed in version 3.5:  returns an empty  if module
contains no docstrings instead of raising .


Under the covers,  creates a  out
of  instances, and  is a
subclass of .  isn’t documented
here (it’s an internal detail), but studying its code can answer questions about
the exact details of  integration.
Similarly,  creates a  out of
 instances, and  is a subclass
of .
So both ways of creating a  run instances of
.  This is important for a subtle reason: when you run
 functions yourself, you can control the  options in
use directly, by passing option flags to  functions.  However, if
you’re writing a  framework,  ultimately controls
when and how tests get run.  The framework author typically wants to control
 reporting options (perhaps, e.g., specified by command line
options), but there’s no way to pass options through  to
 test runners.
For this reason,  also supports a notion of 
reporting flags specific to  support, via this function:


(flags)¶
Set the  reporting flags to use.
Argument flags takes the bitwise OR of option flags.  See
section Option Flags.  Only “reporting flags” can be used.
This is a module-global setting, and affects all future doctests run by module
:  the  method of  looks at
the option flags specified for the test case when the 
instance was constructed.  If no reporting flags were specified (which is the
typical and expected case), ’s  reporting flags are
bitwise ORed into the option flags, and the option flags
so augmented are passed to the  instance created to
run the doctest.  If any reporting flags were specified when the
 instance was constructed, ’s
 reporting flags are ignored.
The value of the  reporting flags in effect before the function
was called is returned by the function.

