link:
library/doctest.html#doctest.DocTestFinder

docs:


class (verbose=False, parser=DocTestParser(), recurse=True, exclude_empty=True)¶
A processing class used to extract the s that are relevant to
a given object, from its docstring and the docstrings of its contained objects.
s can be extracted from modules, classes, functions,
methods, staticmethods, classmethods, and properties.
The optional argument verbose can be used to display the objects searched by
the finder.  It defaults to  (no output).
The optional argument parser specifies the  object (or a
drop-in replacement) that is used to extract doctests from docstrings.
If the optional argument recurse is false, then 
will only examine the given object, and not any contained objects.
If the optional argument exclude_empty is false, then
 will include tests for objects with empty docstrings.
 defines the following method:


(obj[, name][, module][, globs][, extraglobs])¶
Return a list of the s that are defined by obj’s
docstring, or by any of its contained objects’ docstrings.
The optional argument name specifies the object’s name; this name will be
used to construct names for the returned s.  If name is
not specified, then  is used.
The optional parameter module is the module that contains the given object.
If the module is not specified or is , then the test finder will attempt
to automatically determine the correct module.  The object’s module is used:

As a default namespace, if globs is not specified.
To prevent the DocTestFinder from extracting DocTests from objects that are
imported from other modules.  (Contained objects with modules other than
module are ignored.)
To find the name of the file containing the object.
To help find the line number of the object within its file.

If module is , no attempt to find the module will be made.  This is
obscure, of use mostly in testing doctest itself: if module is , or
is  but cannot be found automatically, then all objects are considered
to belong to the (non-existent) module, so all contained objects will
(recursively) be searched for doctests.
The globals for each  is formed by combining globs and
extraglobs (bindings in extraglobs override bindings in globs).  A new
shallow copy of the globals dictionary is created for each .
If globs is not specified, then it defaults to the module’s __dict__, if
specified, or  otherwise.  If extraglobs is not specified, then it
defaults to .

