link:
library/doctest.html#doctestrunner-objects

docs:

DocTestRunner objects¶


class (checker=None, verbose=None, optionflags=0)¶
A processing class used to execute and verify the interactive examples in a
.
The comparison between expected outputs and actual outputs is done by an
.  This comparison may be customized with a number of
option flags; see section Option Flags for more information.  If the
option flags are insufficient, then the comparison may also be customized by
passing a subclass of  to the constructor.
The test runner’s display output can be controlled in two ways. First, an output
function can be passed to ; this function will be called
with strings that should be displayed.  It defaults to .  If
capturing the output is not sufficient, then the display output can be also
customized by subclassing DocTestRunner, and overriding the methods
, ,
, and .
The optional keyword argument checker specifies the 
object (or drop-in replacement) that should be used to compare the expected
outputs to the actual outputs of doctest examples.
The optional keyword argument verbose controls the ’s
verbosity.  If verbose is , then information is printed about each
example, as it is run.  If verbose is , then only failures are
printed.  If verbose is unspecified, or , then verbose output is used
iff the command-line switch  is used.
The optional keyword argument optionflags can be used to control how the test
runner compares expected output to actual output, and how it displays failures.
For more information, see section Option Flags.
 defines the following methods:


(out, test, example)¶
Report that the test runner is about to process the given example. This method
is provided to allow subclasses of  to customize their
output; it should not be called directly.
example is the example about to be processed.  test is the test
containing example.  out is the output function that was passed to
.



(out, test, example, got)¶
Report that the given example ran successfully.  This method is provided to
allow subclasses of  to customize their output; it
should not be called directly.
example is the example about to be processed.  got is the actual output
from the example.  test is the test containing example.  out is the
output function that was passed to .



(out, test, example, got)¶
Report that the given example failed.  This method is provided to allow
subclasses of  to customize their output; it should not
be called directly.
example is the example about to be processed.  got is the actual output
from the example.  test is the test containing example.  out is the
output function that was passed to .



(out, test, example, exc_info)¶
Report that the given example raised an unexpected exception. This method is
provided to allow subclasses of  to customize their
output; it should not be called directly.
example is the example about to be processed. exc_info is a tuple
containing information about the unexpected exception (as returned by
). test is the test containing example.  out is the
output function that was passed to .



(test, compileflags=None, out=None, clear_globs=True)¶
Run the examples in test (a  object), and display the
results using the writer function out.
The examples are run in the namespace .  If clear_globs is
true (the default), then this namespace will be cleared after the test runs,
to help with garbage collection. If you would like to examine the namespace
after the test completes, then use clear_globs=False.
compileflags gives the set of flags that should be used by the Python
compiler when running the examples.  If not specified, then it will default to
the set of future-import flags that apply to globs.
The output of each example is checked using the ’s
output checker, and the results are formatted by the
 methods.



(verbose=None)¶
Print a summary of all the test cases that have been run by this DocTestRunner,
and return a named tuple .
The optional verbose argument controls how detailed the summary is.  If the
verbosity is not specified, then the ’s verbosity is
used.


