link:
library/profile.html#instant-user-s-manual

docs:

Instant User’s Manual¶
This section is provided for users that “don’t want to read the manual.” It
provides a very brief overview, and allows a user to rapidly perform profiling
on an existing application.
To profile a function that takes a single argument, you can do:


(Use  instead of  if the latter is not available on
your system.)
The above action would run  and print profile results like
the following:


The first line indicates that 197 calls were monitored.  Of those calls, 192
were primitive, meaning that the call was not induced via recursion. The
next line: , indicates that the text string in the
far right column was used to sort the output. The column headings include:

ncalls
for the number of calls.
tottime
for the total time spent in the given function (and excluding time made in
calls to sub-functions)
percall
is the quotient of  divided by 
cumtime
is the cumulative time spent in this and all subfunctions (from invocation
till exit). This figure is accurate even for recursive functions.
percall
is the quotient of  divided by primitive calls
filename:lineno(function)
provides the respective data of each function

When there are two numbers in the first column (for example ), it means
that the function recursed.  The second value is the number of primitive calls
and the former is the total number of calls.  Note that when the function does
not recurse, these two values are the same, and only the single figure is
printed.
Instead of printing the output at the end of the profile run, you can save the
results to a file by specifying a filename to the  function:


The  class reads profile results from a file and formats
them in various ways.
The file  can also be invoked as a script to profile another
script.  For example:


 writes the profile results to a file instead of to stdout
 specifies one of the  sort values to sort
the output by. This only applies when  is not supplied.
 specifies that a module is being profiled instead of a script.


New in version 3.7: Added the  option.


The  module’s  class has a variety of methods
for manipulating and printing the data saved into a profile results file:


The  method removed the extraneous path from all
the module names. The  method sorted all the
entries according to the standard module/line/name string that is printed. The
 method printed out all the statistics.  You
might try the following sort calls:


The first call will actually sort the list by function name, and the second call
will print out the statistics.  The following are some interesting calls to
experiment with:


This sorts the profile by cumulative time in a function, and then only prints
the ten most significant lines.  If you want to understand what algorithms are
taking time, the above line is what you would use.
If you were looking to see what functions were looping a lot, and taking a lot
of time, you would do:


to sort according to time spent within each function, and then print the
statistics for the top ten functions.
You might also try:


This will sort all the statistics by file name, and then print out statistics
for only the class init methods (since they are spelled with  in
them).  As one final example, you could try:


This line sorts statistics with a primary key of time, and a secondary key of
cumulative time, and then prints out some of the statistics. To be specific, the
list is first culled down to 50% (re: ) of its original size, then only
lines containing  are maintained, and that sub-sub-list is printed.
If you wondered what functions called the above functions, you could now (
is still sorted according to the last criteria) do:


and you would get a list of callers for each of the listed functions.
If you want more functionality, you’re going to have to read the manual, or
guess what the following functions do:


Invoked as a script, the  module is a statistics browser for
reading and examining profile dumps.  It has a simple line-oriented interface
(implemented using ) and interactive help.
