link:
library/venv.html#creating-virtual-environments

docs:

Creating virtual environments¶
Creation of virtual environments is done by executing the
command :


Running this command creates the target directory (creating any parent
directories that don’t exist already) and places a  file in it
with a  key pointing to the Python installation from which the command
was run.  It also creates a  (or  on Windows) subdirectory
containing a copy/symlink of the Python binary/binaries (as appropriate for the
platform or arguments used at environment creation time). It also creates an
(initially empty)  subdirectory
(on Windows, this is ). If an existing
directory is specified, it will be re-used.

Deprecated since version 3.6:  was the recommended tool for creating virtual environments for
Python 3.3 and 3.4, and is deprecated in Python 3.6.


Changed in version 3.5: The use of  is now recommended for creating virtual environments.

On Windows, invoke the  command as follows:


Alternatively, if you configured the  and  variables for
your Python installation:


The command, if run with , will show the available options:



Changed in version 3.4: Installs pip by default, added the   and 
options


Changed in version 3.4: In earlier versions, if the target directory already existed, an error was
raised, unless the  or  option was provided.


Note
While symlinks are supported on Windows, they are not recommended. Of
particular note is that double-clicking  in File Explorer
will resolve the symlink eagerly and ignore the virtual environment.

The created  file also includes the
 key, set to  if  is
run with the  option,  otherwise.
Unless the  option is given,  will be
invoked to bootstrap  into the virtual environment.
Multiple paths can be given to , in which case an identical virtual
environment will be created, according to the given options, at each provided
path.
Once a virtual environment has been created, it can be “activated” using a
script in the virtual environment’s binary directory. The invocation of the
script is platform-specific (<venv> must be replaced by the path of the
directory containing the virtual environment):







Platform
Shell
Command to activate virtual environment



Posix
bash/zsh
$ source <venv>/bin/activate

 
fish
$ . <venv>/bin/activate.fish

 
csh/tcsh
$ source <venv>/bin/activate.csh

Windows
cmd.exe
C:\> <venv>\Scripts\activate.bat

 
PowerShell
PS C:\> <venv>\Scripts\Activate.ps1



You don’t specifically need to activate an environment; activation just
prepends the virtual environment’s binary directory to your path, so that
“python” invokes the virtual environment’s Python interpreter and you can run
installed scripts without having to use their full path. However, all scripts
installed in a virtual environment should be runnable without activating it,
and run with the virtual environment’s Python automatically.
You can deactivate a virtual environment by typing “deactivate” in your shell.
The exact mechanism is platform-specific: for example, the Bash activation
script defines a “deactivate” function, whereas on Windows there are separate
scripts called  and  which are installed
when the virtual environment is created.

New in version 3.4:  and  activation scripts.


Note
A virtual environment is a Python environment such that the Python
interpreter, libraries and scripts installed into it are isolated from those
installed in other virtual environments, and (by default) any libraries
installed in a “system” Python, i.e., one which is installed as part of your
operating system.
A virtual environment is a directory tree which contains Python executable
files and other files which indicate that it is a virtual environment.
Common installation tools such as  and  work as
expected with virtual environments. In other words, when a virtual
environment is active, they install Python packages into the virtual
environment without needing to be told to do so explicitly.
When a virtual environment is active (i.e., the virtual environment’s Python
interpreter is running), the attributes  and
 point to the base directory of the virtual
environment, whereas  and
 point to the non-virtual environment Python
installation which was used to create the virtual environment. If a virtual
environment is not active, then  is the same as
 and  is the same as
 (they all point to a non-virtual environment
Python installation).
When a virtual environment is active, any options that change the
installation path will be ignored from all distutils configuration files to
prevent projects being inadvertently installed outside of the virtual
environment.
When working in a command shell, users can make a virtual environment active
by running an  script in the virtual environment’s executables
directory (the precise filename is shell-dependent), which prepends the
virtual environment’s directory for executables to the  environment
variable for the running shell. There should be no need in other
circumstances to activate a virtual environment—scripts installed into
virtual environments have a “shebang” line which points to the virtual
environment’s Python interpreter. This means that the script will run with
that interpreter regardless of the value of . On Windows, “shebang”
line processing is supported if you have the Python Launcher for Windows
installed (this was added to Python in 3.3 - see PEP 397 for more
details). Thus, double-clicking an installed script in a Windows Explorer
window should run the script with the correct interpreter without there
needing to be any reference to its virtual environment in .

