link:
library/dataclasses.html#dataclasses.field

docs:


(*, default=MISSING, default_factory=MISSING, repr=True, hash=None, init=True, compare=True, metadata=None)¶
For common and simple use cases, no other functionality is
required.  There are, however, some dataclass features that
require additional per-field information.  To satisfy this need for
additional information, you can replace the default field value
with a call to the provided  function.  For example:


As shown above, the  value is a sentinel object used to
detect if the  and  parameters are
provided.  This sentinel is used because  is a valid value
for .  No code should directly use the 
value.
The parameters to  are:

: If provided, this will be the default value for this
field.  This is needed because the  call itself
replaces the normal position of the default value.

: If provided, it must be a zero-argument
callable that will be called when a default value is needed for
this field.  Among other purposes, this can be used to specify
fields with mutable default values, as discussed below.  It is an
error to specify both  and .

: If true (the default), this field is included as a
parameter to the generated  method.

: If true (the default), this field is included in the
string returned by the generated  method.

: If true (the default), this field is included in the
generated equality and comparison methods (,
, et al.).

: This can be a bool or .  If true, this field is
included in the generated  method.  If  (the
default), use the value of : this would normally be
the expected behavior.  A field should be considered in the hash
if it’s used for comparisons.  Setting this value to anything
other than  is discouraged.
One possible reason to set  but 
would be if a field is expensive to compute a hash value for,
that field is needed for equality testing, and there are other
fields that contribute to the type’s hash value.  Even if a field
is excluded from the hash, it will still be used for comparisons.

: This can be a mapping or None. None is treated as
an empty dict.  This value is wrapped in
 to make it read-only, and exposed
on the  object. It is not used at all by Data
Classes, and is provided as a third-party extension mechanism.
Multiple third-parties can each have their own key, to use as a
namespace in the metadata.


If the default value of a field is specified by a call to
, then the class attribute for this field will be
replaced by the specified  value.  If no  is
provided, then the class attribute will be deleted.  The intent is
that after the  decorator runs, the class
attributes will all contain the default values for the fields, just
as if the default value itself were specified.  For example,
after:


The class attribute  will be , the class attribute
 will be , and the class attributes  and
 will not be set.
