link:
library/contextlib.html#contextlib.ExitStack

docs:


class ¶
A context manager that is designed to make it easy to programmatically
combine other context managers and cleanup functions, especially those
that are optional or otherwise driven by input data.
For example, a set of files may easily be handled in a single with
statement as follows:


Each instance maintains a stack of registered callbacks that are called in
reverse order when the instance is closed (either explicitly or implicitly
at the end of a  statement). Note that callbacks are not
invoked implicitly when the context stack instance is garbage collected.
This stack model is used so that context managers that acquire their
resources in their  method (such as file objects) can be
handled correctly.
Since registered callbacks are invoked in the reverse order of
registration, this ends up behaving as if multiple nested 
statements had been used with the registered set of callbacks. This even
extends to exception handling - if an inner callback suppresses or replaces
an exception, then outer callbacks will be passed arguments based on that
updated state.
This is a relatively low level API that takes care of the details of
correctly unwinding the stack of exit callbacks. It provides a suitable
foundation for higher level context managers that manipulate the exit
stack in application specific ways.

New in version 3.3.



(cm)¶
Enters a new context manager and adds its  method to
the callback stack. The return value is the result of the context
manager’s own  method.
These context managers may suppress exceptions just as they normally
would if used directly as part of a  statement.



(exit)¶
Adds a context manager’s  method to the callback stack.
As  is not invoked, this method can be used to cover
part of an  implementation with a context manager’s own
 method.
If passed an object that is not a context manager, this method assumes
it is a callback with the same signature as a context manager’s
 method and adds it directly to the callback stack.
By returning true values, these callbacks can suppress exceptions the
same way context manager  methods can.
The passed in object is returned from the function, allowing this
method to be used as a function decorator.



(callback, *args, **kwds)¶
Accepts an arbitrary callback function and arguments and adds it to
the callback stack.
Unlike the other methods, callbacks added this way cannot suppress
exceptions (as they are never passed the exception details).
The passed in callback is returned from the function, allowing this
method to be used as a function decorator.



()¶
Transfers the callback stack to a fresh  instance
and returns it. No callbacks are invoked by this operation - instead,
they will now be invoked when the new stack is closed (either
explicitly or implicitly at the end of a  statement).
For example, a group of files can be opened as an “all or nothing”
operation as follows:





()¶
Immediately unwinds the callback stack, invoking callbacks in the
reverse order of registration. For any context managers and exit
callbacks registered, the arguments passed in will indicate that no
exception occurred.

