link:
library/inspect.html#the-interpreter-stack

docs:

The interpreter stack¶
When the following functions return “frame records,” each record is a
named tuple
.
The tuple contains the frame object, the filename, the line number of the
current line,
the function name, a list of lines of context from the source code, and the
index of the current line within that list.

Changed in version 3.5: Return a named tuple instead of a tuple.


Note
Keeping references to frame objects, as found in the first element of the frame
records these functions return, can cause your program to create reference
cycles.  Once a reference cycle has been created, the lifespan of all objects
which can be accessed from the objects which form the cycle can become much
longer even if Python’s optional cycle detector is enabled.  If such cycles must
be created, it is important to ensure they are explicitly broken to avoid the
delayed destruction of objects and increased memory consumption which occurs.
Though the cycle detector will catch these, destruction of the frames (and local
variables) can be made deterministic by removing the cycle in a
 clause.  This is also important if the cycle detector was
disabled when Python was compiled or using .  For example:


If you want to keep the frame around (for example to print a traceback
later), you can also break reference cycles by using the
 method.

The optional context argument supported by most of these functions specifies
the number of lines of context to return, which are centered around the current
line.


(frame, context=1)¶
Get information about a frame or traceback object.  A named tuple
 is returned.



(frame, context=1)¶
Get a list of frame records for a frame and all outer frames.  These frames
represent the calls that lead to the creation of frame. The first entry in the
returned list represents frame; the last entry represents the outermost call
on frame’s stack.

Changed in version 3.5: A list of named tuples

is returned.




(traceback, context=1)¶
Get a list of frame records for a traceback’s frame and all inner frames.  These
frames represent calls made as a consequence of frame.  The first entry in the
list represents traceback; the last entry represents where the exception was
raised.

Changed in version 3.5: A list of named tuples

is returned.




()¶
Return the frame object for the caller’s stack frame.

CPython implementation detail: This function relies on Python stack frame support in the interpreter,
which isn’t guaranteed to exist in all implementations of Python.  If
running in an implementation without Python stack frame support this
function returns .




(context=1)¶
Return a list of frame records for the caller’s stack.  The first entry in the
returned list represents the caller; the last entry represents the outermost
call on the stack.

Changed in version 3.5: A list of named tuples

is returned.




(context=1)¶
Return a list of frame records for the stack between the current frame and the
frame in which an exception currently being handled was raised in.  The first
entry in the list represents the caller; the last entry represents where the
exception was raised.

Changed in version 3.5: A list of named tuples

is returned.


