link:
library/importlib.html#functions

docs:

Functions¶


(name, globals=None, locals=None, fromlist=(), level=0)¶
An implementation of the built-in  function.

Note
Programmatic importing of modules should use 
instead of this function.




(name, package=None)¶
Import a module. The name argument specifies what module to
import in absolute or relative terms
(e.g. either  or ). If the name is
specified in relative terms, then the package argument must be set to
the name of the package which is to act as the anchor for resolving the
package name (e.g.  will import
).
The  function acts as a simplifying wrapper around
. This means all semantics of the function are
derived from . The most important difference
between these two functions is that  returns the
specified package or module (e.g. ), while 
returns the top-level package or module (e.g. ).
If you are dynamically importing a module that was created since the
interpreter began execution (e.g., created a Python source file), you may
need to call  in order for the new module to be
noticed by the import system.

Changed in version 3.3: Parent packages are automatically imported.




(name, path=None)¶
Find the loader for a module, optionally within the specified path. If the
module is in , then  is
returned (unless the loader would be  or is not set, in which case
 is raised). Otherwise a search using 
is done.  is returned if no loader is found.
A dotted name does not have its parents implicitly imported as that requires
loading them and that may not be desired. To properly import a submodule you
will need to import all parent packages of the submodule and use the correct
argument to path.

New in version 3.3.


Changed in version 3.4: If  is not set, raise , just like when the
attribute is set to .


Deprecated since version 3.4: Use  instead.




()¶
Invalidate the internal caches of finders stored at
. If a finder implements  then it
will be called to perform the invalidation.  This function should be called
if any modules are created/installed while your program is running to
guarantee all finders will notice the new module’s existence.

New in version 3.3.




(module)¶
Reload a previously imported module.  The argument must be a module object,
so it must have been successfully imported before.  This is useful if you
have edited the module source file using an external editor and want to try
out the new version without leaving the Python interpreter.  The return value
is the module object (which can be different if re-importing causes a
different object to be placed in ).
When  is executed:

Python module’s code is recompiled and the module-level code re-executed,
defining a new set of objects which are bound to names in the module’s
dictionary by reusing the loader which originally loaded the
module.  The  function of extension modules is not called a second
time.
As with all other objects in Python the old objects are only reclaimed
after their reference counts drop to zero.
The names in the module namespace are updated to point to any new or
changed objects.
Other references to the old objects (such as names external to the module) are
not rebound to refer to the new objects and must be updated in each namespace
where they occur if that is desired.

There are a number of other caveats:
When a module is reloaded, its dictionary (containing the module’s global
variables) is retained.  Redefinitions of names will override the old
definitions, so this is generally not a problem.  If the new version of a
module does not define a name that was defined by the old version, the old
definition remains.  This feature can be used to the module’s advantage if it
maintains a global table or cache of objects — with a 
statement it can test for the table’s presence and skip its initialization if
desired:


It is generally not very useful to reload built-in or dynamically loaded
modules.  Reloading , ,  and other
key modules is not recommended.  In many cases extension modules are not
designed to be initialized more than once, and may fail in arbitrary ways
when reloaded.
If a module imports objects from another module using  …
 …, calling  for the other module does not
redefine the objects imported from it — one way around this is to
re-execute the  statement, another is to use 
and qualified names (module.name) instead.
If a module instantiates instances of a class, reloading the module that
defines the class does not affect the method definitions of the instances —
they continue to use the old class definition.  The same is true for derived
classes.

New in version 3.4.


Changed in version 3.7:  is raised when the module being reloaded lacks
a .


