link:
library/importlib.html#importlib.reload

docs:


(module)¶
Reload a previously imported module.  The argument must be a module object,
so it must have been successfully imported before.  This is useful if you
have edited the module source file using an external editor and want to try
out the new version without leaving the Python interpreter.  The return value
is the module object (which can be different if re-importing causes a
different object to be placed in ).
When  is executed:

Python module’s code is recompiled and the module-level code re-executed,
defining a new set of objects which are bound to names in the module’s
dictionary by reusing the loader which originally loaded the
module.  The  function of extension modules is not called a second
time.
As with all other objects in Python the old objects are only reclaimed
after their reference counts drop to zero.
The names in the module namespace are updated to point to any new or
changed objects.
Other references to the old objects (such as names external to the module) are
not rebound to refer to the new objects and must be updated in each namespace
where they occur if that is desired.

There are a number of other caveats:
When a module is reloaded, its dictionary (containing the module’s global
variables) is retained.  Redefinitions of names will override the old
definitions, so this is generally not a problem.  If the new version of a
module does not define a name that was defined by the old version, the old
definition remains.  This feature can be used to the module’s advantage if it
maintains a global table or cache of objects — with a 
statement it can test for the table’s presence and skip its initialization if
desired:


It is generally not very useful to reload built-in or dynamically loaded
modules.  Reloading , ,  and other
key modules is not recommended.  In many cases extension modules are not
designed to be initialized more than once, and may fail in arbitrary ways
when reloaded.
If a module imports objects from another module using  …
 …, calling  for the other module does not
redefine the objects imported from it — one way around this is to
re-execute the  statement, another is to use 
and qualified names (module.name) instead.
If a module instantiates instances of a class, reloading the module that
defines the class does not affect the method definitions of the instances —
they continue to use the old class definition.  The same is true for derived
classes.

New in version 3.4.


Changed in version 3.7:  is raised when the module being reloaded lacks
a .

