link:
library/compileall.html#compileall.compile_dir

docs:


(dir, maxlevels=10, ddir=None, force=False, rx=None, quiet=0, legacy=False, optimize=-1, workers=1, invalidation_mode=py_compile.PycInvalidationMode.TIMESTAMP)¶
Recursively descend the directory tree named by dir, compiling all 
files along the way. Return a true value if all the files compiled successfully,
and a false value otherwise.
The maxlevels parameter is used to limit the depth of the recursion; it
defaults to .
If ddir is given, it is prepended to the path to each file being compiled
for use in compilation time tracebacks, and is also compiled in to the
byte-code file, where it will be used in tracebacks and other messages in
cases where the source file does not exist at the time the byte-code file is
executed.
If force is true, modules are re-compiled even if the timestamps are up to
date.
If rx is given, its search method is called on the complete path to each
file considered for compilation, and if it returns a true value, the file
is skipped.
If quiet is  or  (the default), the filenames and other
information are printed to standard out. Set to , only errors are
printed. Set to , all output is suppressed.
If legacy is true, byte-code files are written to their legacy locations
and names, which may overwrite byte-code files created by another version of
Python.  The default is to write files to their PEP 3147 locations and
names, which allows byte-code files from multiple versions of Python to
coexist.
optimize specifies the optimization level for the compiler.  It is passed to
the built-in  function.
The argument workers specifies how many workers are used to
compile files in parallel. The default is to not use multiple workers.
If the platform can’t use multiple workers and workers argument is given,
then sequential compilation will be used as a fallback.  If workers is
lower than , a  will be raised.
invalidation_mode should be a member of the
 enum and controls how the generated
pycs are invalidated at runtime.

Changed in version 3.2: Added the legacy and optimize parameter.


Changed in version 3.5: Added the workers parameter.


Changed in version 3.5: quiet parameter was changed to a multilevel value.


Changed in version 3.5: The legacy parameter only writes out  files, not  files
no matter what the value of optimize is.


Changed in version 3.6: Accepts a path-like object.


Changed in version 3.7: The invalidation_mode parameter was added.

