Natural Text
I am trying to use this Python urllib2 Basic Auth Problem bit of code to download a webpage content from an URL which requires authentication. The code I am trying is:It's showing me:I am wondering what I am doing wrong? I am using Python 2.7.5. How can I download file contents from an URL which requires authentication?
It's not an issue related to authentication at the first step. Your import is not working. So, try writing this on first line:and for the time being run using For you here is one explanation:At first, I initialized abc variable and it works fine. On the otherhand, xyz doesn't work as it is not initialized!
Are you using a UNIX based OS such as Linux? If so, add a shebang line to the very top of your script:Underneath which you would have the rest of the code (xx.py in your case) that you already have. Then run that same command at the terminal:This should then work fine, as it is now interpreting this as Python code. However when running from the terminal this does not matter as python tells how to interpret it here. What it does allow you to do is execute it outside the terminal, i.e. executing it from a file browser.
When you see "import: command not found" on the very first import, it is caused by the parser not using the character encoding matching your py file.  Especially when you are not using ASCII encoding in your py file.The way to get it right is to specify the correct encoding on top of your py file to match your file character encoding.
If you run a script directly e.g., ./xx.py and your script has no shebang such as #!/usr/bin/env python at the very top then your shell may execute it as a shell script. POSIX says:If the execl() function fails due to an error equivalent to the  [ENOEXEC] error defined in the System Interfaces volume of  POSIX.1-2008, the shell shall execute a command equivalent to having a  shell invoked with the pathname resulting from the search as its first  operand, with any remaining arguments passed to the new shell, except  that the value of "$0" in the new shell may be set to the command  name. If the executable file is not a text file, the shell may bypass  this command execution. In this case, it shall write an error message,  and shall return an exit status of 126.Note: you may get ENOEXEC if your text file has no shebang.Without the shebang, you shell tries to run your Python script as a shell script that leads to the error: import: command not found.Also, if you run your script as python xx.py then you do not need the shebang. You don't even need it to be executable (+x). Your script is interpreted by python in this case. On Windows, shebang is not used unless pylauncher is installed. It is included in Python 3.3+.
I've experienced the same problem and now I just found my solution to this issue.This is the code[1] for my case. When I tried this script I received error message like :import: command not foundI found people talks about the shebang. As you see there is the shebang in my python code above.I tried these and those trials but didn't find a good solution.I finally tried to type the shebang my self.and removed the copied one.And my problem solved!!!I copied the code from the internet[1].And I guess there had been some unseeable(?) unseen special characters in the original copied shebang statement.I use vim, sometimes I experience similar problems.. Especially when I copied some code snippet from the internet this kind of problems happen.. Web pages have some virus special characters!! I doubt. :-)JourneyerPS) I copied the code in Windows 7 - host OS - into the Windows clipboard and pasted it into my vim in Ubuntu - guest OS. VM is Oracle Virtual Machine.[1] http://nathanhoad.net/how-to-meld-for-git-diffs-in-ubuntu-hardy
It's about ShebangThis will tell which interpreter to wake up to run the code written in file.


Answer URL
