Natural Text
I'm obtaining inconsistent behaviour with the output of datetime.strftime().I'm using macOS Sierra 10.12.6 and Python 3.6.2. I have a Python program, named , that is In a terminal, I writewhich is the Italian way of writing dates. Thenwhere the date and time are written in another locale. How is this happening? Is this a bug or is there any reason for this behaviour?I'm puzzled because the Python docs mention that  refers to "Locale’s appropriate date and time representation.", so I thought that the system's locale is the "appropriate" one ;) (see https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html, sec 8.1.8)
Digging into the  module a bit, I find this under the description of :According to POSIX, a program which has not called          setlocale(LC_ALL, "") runs using the portable 'C' locale.          Calling setlocale(LC_ALL, "") lets it use the default locale as          defined by the LANG variable. Since we don't want to interfere          with the current locale setting we thus emulate the behavior          in the way described above.From this, I gather it is good practice to callto set your locale to the one you expect to inherit from the caller's evironment. Do that, and you should get the expected output from .That said, I noticed a difference in behavior between Python 2.7 and Python 3.6 on my macOS 10.12 installation. On startup,  and  both return  in Python 3. In Python 2, though,  returns  until I call . In either case, the call to  is still required for  to actually use the set locale, rather than the default  locale. I do not know if this represents a bug, or if so, which one is the buggy instance.
There are a number of different locale categories that are all configured independently, and  only gets you the settting of the  category. Time formatting is controlled by the  category, which you can check with .You can use  to set the settings for all locale categories to the user's default settings (typically specified in the  environment variable).  isn't threadsafe, so this usually goes near the start of a program.
python result is correct, strftime('%c') return same result format.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html
