Natural Text
I have enabled  in my project and added the following configuration:I have the following in my :I would like the link to point to , the root URL in , but I don't know what  should be.If I do  or , I get If I do  I get I can replace the  with , but I would really like to reference the page via intersphinx, to avoid broken links down the line.I am using sphinx 1.6.3 on Python 3.6.2 in Anaconda. I am not overly hung on the library I am trying to link to. I suspect that the answer will not really be tied to a library.If it matters any, the regular references to the pyserial docs work just fine. For example  links to https://pythonhosted.org/pyserial/pyserial_api.html#serial.Serial.
You've already got the following requirements satisfied. It's the last item that is a common source of frustration.Configure the project to use intersphinx.The remote documentation uses Sphinx and does in fact have an inventory file named . When running , log entries should be something like this:The syntax for Python projects using intersphinx is the following, just like any cross-referencing link:So in your case:Finally, some desired targets might not exist in the inventory for a given page. This answer shows how to see all intersphinx targets, using the following:All the API objects appear, which is why you can link to those, but only a limited number of other objects are present:The lack of arbitrary labels is a common annoyance for authors.You can also check the project's reST source for targets and in this case, there are no reference labels like .To resolve this issue, you could either use one of the arbitrary targets:...or better yet submit a pull request to the project where you provide labels for at least the index page, wait for its acceptance, then use that for intersphinx links. Other authors would appreciate it.
Based on the suggestion by @StevePiercy, I submitted PR#261 to pyserial. Since the PR was accepted, you can now link to the root docs using the  label. Something likeThe other thing to note is that the pyserial docs should be linked to https://pyserial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/, not https://pythonhosted.org/pyserial/ as I have been doing.


Answer URL
