Natural Text
In Python 3.5 the recommended way to create virtual environments is with the venv, instead of virtualenv. Still the python packaging tutorial mentions both tools.However virtualenvwrapper is a recommended wrapper tool to use when using virtualenv.My questions are then:Is there a way to use virtualenvwrapper with venv?Or could one even consider virtualenvwrapper not needed due to venv? (I cannot see how this could be true since it is a wrapper solvinganother problem)Edit: I can see that there is some confusion in the answers to my question. venv is Python's official equivalent of virtualenv, as explained in the links above. Multiple stack overflow questions suggests that venv should be used. As mentioned in the "duplicate" you suggested:the introduction of venv is in part a response to that mess. If you want to help improve the situation, I suggest you use venv and encourage others to do the sameSo it is encouraged to use venv. But as this questions implies, if one is to use venv how does one use a wrapper like virtualenvwrapper
As its name suggests,  was specifically designed towrap , on which it depends. I don't believe that anyonehas similarly wrapped  yet. is intended to do the basic work of creating virtualenvironments, but environment management has to be done withscripts. Although shell scripting is often people's firstresort, the  module has an extensive API to help you inthose tasks.Nowadays there are many options for creating Python virtual environments. Besides those you mention,  allows the creation and management of environments and even works pretty well with  most of the time.The tools in the virtual environment space have been designed to work together with standard Python distribution tools as far as possible, but the arrival of  in Python 3.5 did not invalidate either  or , which should both still work fine.The  module is principally a simple toolkit to allow the creation of virtualenvs inside programs, and is by no means intended to replace the convenience of . It simply meets a rather different set of needs.
Append This script to in .bashrc / .bash_profile / .zshrc, then enables you basic management of venv.In addition, you can extend the script by adding the following line so that it will also display the existing venv lists.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html
