Natural Text
I'm not even sure I'm calling those by their correct names but here's what I'm working with. I'm working on a simple hockey simulator that only uses math at this time to simulate the results of the games. Currently there is no names or anything like that and I've just generated a "list" of names for "team1" when the scorers are chosen.  That's where this comes in.  I want to create a list of players for each team and figured functions would be best...if its not please let me know an easier way.  So here's the function right now:And the _overall variable would need to be called in some places whereas the _name variable would be called in another place. Is this possible?Instead of "c1" above I would replace that with _overall from the c1 function. I'm not sure how to do that or if its possible.. sorry for repeating myself here lol...And then I have this (below) for the player list:Ideally, I would replace all of those with the _name variable in each function. The player functions would also go into more depth with their speed, hands, shooting, etc. ratings as well. I don't know how sim sports handle this as I'm very new to coding (just started school) and I wrote the original engine in excel, which is why its just numbers and not physics or plays.If this doesn't explain it well enough please let me know and I'll further explain what I'm trying to do.
In your case, its better to use a class and assign two variable to that class then create instances of it, for example:EDIT:to add  when creating the class you need to change the init method to :then pass it when creating the class:You can create a list of players at start and append each instance of player to that list for future use, for example:
You have to read about object oriented programming, and then start working with classes, methods, and from that creating objects. This is an example for using different functions (methods) under the umbrella of a Class. Note how the use of  is necessary for accessing variables between the different methods:If you run this you'll get the  _new_name "Jason Delhome Jefferson", and  you can apply this example to all kinds of operations between your class methods. 
While manually creating a class is a great solution for this problem, I believe that generating one via  could also work in this senario.Using list comprehension, you could built your entire team:
Python lets you group info and data together using classes. In your case, you mostly have information about each player, like a name and various stats. You could define a class like:Now you can create a bunch of objects from the class:And you could calculateSince you already have a list of player names, you can use a list comprehension to get a list of players in one step:Now you can access each element in that list, and get their  and  attributes to do with them as you see fit.If you want to extend the  calculation to include all five players now, you can assign a weight to each one:where  is defined something like:Python is a pretty flexible language. Go crazy with it!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/introduction.html#lists
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html
