Natural Text
Is this "convenience wrapper": https://docs.python.org/2/library/importlib.html just providing another way of writing:Is there something is does that you can't do with a normal import statement?
In Python 2.7,  isn't super useful.  In fact, its only feature is the  function, which enables you to import a module from a string name:Note that you could do the same with the  built-in, but using  is generally preferred.In Python versions 3.1 and greater however, the purpose of  has been expanded.  According to the documentation:The purpose of the  package is two-fold. One is to provide an  implementation of the import statement (and thus, by extension, the   function) in Python source code. This provides an implementation of  which is portable to any Python interpreter.  This also provides a reference implementation which is easier to  comprehend than one implemented in a programming language other than  Python.Two, the components to implement import are exposed in this package,  making it easier for users to create their own custom objects (known  generically as an importer) to participate in the import process.  Details on custom importers can be found in PEP 302.Summarized,  now allows you to access the internals of Python's import-statement, build custom finders, loaders, and importers, setup import hooks, and much more.In fact, as of version 3.3,  holds the implementation of the import-statement itself.  You can read about this on the What's New in Python 3.3 page under Using  as the Implementation of Import.Also,  will be replacing older modules related to importing in future versions of Python. For example, the old  module was deprecated in version 3.4 in favor of .With all of this in mind, I guess it's safe to say that  is pretty important in modern Python. ;)
It allows you to import modules which you do not know the name at coding time.For instance when my application starts, I walk through a directory structure and load the modules as I discover them.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/importlib.html#introduction
https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.3.html#using-importlib-as-the-implementation-of-import
https://docs.python.org/3/library/imp.html
