Natural Text
I am writing a program where the user is asked to type in his name. If the name starts with a, b or c, the program should print ("Your name starts with a, b or c"). Unfortunately if the user starts by typing in a space and then typing his name the program thinks the name starts with a space and it automatically prints "Your name doesn't start with a, b or c" even if the name starts with these letters. I want to delete the space in the input now so this problem doesn't occure any longer.So far I've tried if name.startswith((" ")): name.replace(" ", "") Thanks for any help!
String are imutable. No operation on a string will ever change this stringname.replace(" ", "") do not modify namebut return a new string and let name unchangeSo you can write but you can also writeIn this case, the original string is not modified. But it's name is reused to receive the result of name.replace(" ", "")Wich writing is the best depend on who you ask. I prefer the second one.
As people have stated in the comments, strings are immutable. This means that you can't actually change the value of an existing string - but you can create a new string that includes the changes you want to make.In your case, you are using the .replace() function - this function returns a new string after the replacement has happened. A simple example:Note that the variable new_string now contains the desired changes - "I am a boat" but the original str variable remains unchanged. To answer your question directly, you'll need to use the variable you created after trimming the whitespace. You can even re-use the same variable:
Strings are immutable and replace does not modify the string calling it, but returns a new string which you cold use directly on your code:You could also create a new variable or just reassign name:in case you are going to use it further in your code.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.replace
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.lstrip
