Natural Text
I'm new to github and I'm trying to install unicodecsv (https://github.com/jdunck/python-unicodecsv).I'm trying But I'm getting an error message. I'm probably doing someone basic wrong, can someone help?
The problem is that you're using Python 3.0 or later, and trying to use a library which is only compatible with 2.7 and earlier.The specific problem is the line the traceback points at:This syntax was deprecated in 2.6, in favor of (more flexible and more consistent) new syntax:In 3.0 and later, the deprecated syntax is no longer allowed at all.So, if you want to use this library, someone will have to port it—you, the author, or someone else. It may just be a matter of running 2to3, or fixing each except statement manually—but it may be a lot more to do than that, especially considering this library is all about Unicode.However, it's worth noting that Python 3.x doesn't have the same problem as 2.x did. You can pass the csv module text/Unicode file objects, and it will just handle them. Adapting the example from the unicodecsv docs:Note that I didn't even have to specify utf-8, because StringIO is a Unicode str buffer, not a bytes buffer. You don't have to worry about coding at all.If you didn't even know you were running Python 3.x (as in, you knew you installed it, but you were careful to keep Apple's pre-installed  Python 2.7 higher on the PATH), there are three common reasons this can happen.Apple's Python doesn't come with pip; all of the popular Python 3.x installers and packages do. So, if you haven't installed pip for 2.7, the only one you have is 3.x.Apple's Python installs scripts like pip to /usr/local/bin. So do some of the popular Python 3.x installers and packages. So, whichever you installed more recently wins. (The 3.x one should also be available as /usr/local/bin/pip3, so overwriting its /usr/local/bin/pip with 2.7's is usually fine… unless pip3 is a symlink to pip.)sudo deliberately discards most of your user environment, so 2.7 may be higher on your PATH when running as yourself, but not when running with sudo.


Answer URL
