Natural Text
given letters: example of lettersI am given a file with a list of words.I need to write a recursive function that allows me to check all possibilities the letters can make. If the possibility is in the list of words from the file, I need to print that specific word. so for letters giventhey can create the words:acatacactcaband so on and on each combination the letters make I need to check the file to see if its a valid word. if it is I need to print them. I don't know how start to write this function.
I agree with @dparolin about processing the words file to see if words conform to the letters, not generating possible words and seeing if they are in the file.  This allows us not to read the file into memory, as we only need to examine one word at a time.  And it can be done with a recursive test:EXAMPLE USAGEAnd we should be able to work with lots of letters without issue.
Unfortunately I cannot help just now with a recursive function, but given that a higher count of letters/characters can easily explode into billions of potential combinations if not filtered during creation I have a quirky alternative by iterating over the known words. Those have to be in memory anyway.[EDIT] Removed the sorting as it does not really provide any benefit, fixed an issue where I falsely set to true on iterationYou could copy&paste a product function from the itertools documentation and use the code provided by ExtinctSpecie, it has no further dependencies, however I found without tweaking it returns all potential options including duplications of characters which I did not immediately understand.
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7074051/....
As noted above, this will not be feasible for any more than the number of letters countable on your two hands.  There's just too many possibilities to check.  But if you were to try this, here's how the code would look.This won't try words with duplicate letters (that would be another layer of insanity), but it will try all possible potential words that could be formed by a subset of the letters you give in any order.[edit] Just realized you requested a recursive solution.  Dunno if that's required or not, but the powerset function could be changed to be recursive.  I think that would make it uglier and harder to comprehend, though.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html#itertools.product
