Natural Text
I am having trouble simply saving items into a file for later reading. when I savethe file, instead of listing the items as single items, it appends the data together as one long string. According to my google searches, this should not be appending the items. What am I doing wrong?Thanks in advanceCode:
Since you do not show your data or your output I cannot be sure. But it seems you are trying to use the write method like the print function, but there are important differences.Most important, write does not follow its written characters with any separator (like space by default for print) or end (like \n by default for print).Therefore there is no space between your data and steps number or between the lines because you did not write them and Python did not add them.So add those. Try the linesNote that I do not know the format of your "date" that is written, so you may need to convert that to text before writing it.Now that I have the time, I'll implement @abarnert's suggestion (in a comment) and show you how to get the advantages of the print function and still write to a file. Just use the file= parameter in Python 3, or in Python 2 after executing the statementUsing print you can do my four lines above in one line, since print automatically adds the space separator and newline end:This does assume that your date datum dte[x] is to be printed as text.
Try adding a newline ('\n') character at the end of your lines as you see in docs. This should solve the problem of 'listing the items as single items', but the file you create may not be greatly structured nonetheless.For further of your google searches you may want to check serialization, as well as json and csv formats, covered in python standard library. You question would have befited if you gave very small example of recnum variable + original f.close() is not necessary as you have a with statement, see here at SO.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#methods-of-file-objects
