Natural Text
I have implemented kalman filter. I want to find out how much of cpu energy is being consumed by my script. I have checked other posts on Stackoverflow and following them I downloaded psutil library. Now, I am unaware of where to put the statements to get the correct answer. Here is my code:Please inform whether I am headed in the right direction or not.The above code generated following results. Edit: Goal: find out energy consumed by CPU while running this script    ​
I'm not sure whether you're trying to find the peak CPU usage during execution of that #kalman code, or the average, or the total, or something else? But you can't get any of those by calling cpu_percent() after it's done. You're just measuring the CPU usage of calling cpu_percent().Some of these, you can get by calling cpu_times(). This will tell you how many seconds were spent doing various things, including total "user CPU time" and "system CPU time". The docs indicate exactly which values you get on each platform, and what they mean.In fact, if this is all you want (including only needing those two values), you don't even need psutils, you can just use os.times() in the standard library.Or you can just use the time command from outside your program, by running time python myscript.py instead of python myscript.py.For others, you need to call cpu_percent while your code is running. One simple solution is to run a background process with multiprocessing or concurrent.futures that just calls cpu_percent on your main process. To get anything useful, the child process may need to call it periodically, aggregating the results (e.g., to find the maximum), until it's told to stop, at which point it can return the aggregate.Since this is not quite trivial to write, and definitely not easy to explain without knowing how much familiarity you have with multiprocessing, and there's a good chance cpu_times() is actually what you want here, I won't go into details unless asked.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html#os.times
https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html#os.times
