Natural Text
Are functions passed parameters enclosed in parentheses because they are handled as tuples, or just a result of f(x) convention?i.e. is (b, a, r) a tuple here:Or, is it something more like the way parentheses are used in math equations, e.g.
You can answer this by looking at the Python Grammar.The relevant lines are:So in your example, the grammar would say that (b, a, r) is a typedargslist surrounded by brackets.
Python doesn't see those as tuples. Tuples don't take keyword=value arguments, for example, but the call syntax does.Tuples are not formed by parentheses anyway, they are formed by commas, and you only have to use parentheses around a tuple when disambiguating a tuple from other uses of commas in Python. Like in a function call, where commas separate positional arguments.The Python grammar defines both the parentheses and commas in a call as part of the call expression syntax:while elsewhere tuples are defined as being formed by commas. See expression lists:An expression list containing at least one comma yields a tuple. The length of the tuple is the number of expressions in the list.Note that only the "," commas are part of the literal syntax, the (...) parentheses here are part of the syntax defining the grammar.The other use of parentheses (grouping expressions) is defined in parethezised forms:A parenthesized form is an optional expression list enclosed in parentheses, note again the literal "(" and ")" characters:A parenthesized expression list yields whatever that expression list yields: if the list contains at least one comma, it yields a tuple; otherwise, it yields the single expression that makes up the expression list.There are a few more places in the Python grammar where parentheses are used, see the full grammar specification; these usually echo either the call syntax (e.g. function and class definitions, decorators) or the parenthesised form (grouping imported names, for example), plus generator expressions.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/grammar.html
