Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:Tkinter Entry not showing the current value of textvariable                    1 answer                I'm working with the  module for the first time and I found the  argument when creating labels/buttons and what not.It only ever updates the first time. I've twisted the method of retrieving the command ever which way but nothing seems to be working. I've hit a brick wall.
Take a look at this statement fragment:It is functionally equivalent to this:See the problem? You are calling  immediately, and using the result of that as the value for the  attribute.  returns , so you're effective doing . Don't try to put code into the  argument. Instead, create a proper function and make that the value of the  attribute. That will make your code easier to understand, easier to maintain, and easier to debug.Example:The second problem that you have is that you're using a local variable to store the result of . That means it will get deleted by the garbage collector once the function has finished running.To fix this, assign the attribute to an instance variable:
There's several problems with your code. First you need to make  a instance attribute so it remains in existence even after the  method returns. In your code it's a local variable that will go away when it returns.Secondly, the  option for  should be set to a function to call later when it's clicked, but your code is calling it once while creating the widget itself. You can fix that by using a  expression to define an "anonymous" function that calls the desired function whenever it's called.You could do the same thing without using  as shown in the code below. Note the use of  which just specifies the function's name but doesn't actually call it at the point like using  would. In addition, since  was defined as a class method, it will automatically get a  argument passed to (unlike the function defined in-line via the  expression).Anyway, as you can see, it takes a few more lines of code to do things this way.
I personally gave up with textvariable on windows PC with anaconda environment (use of Spyder): I have too many levels and nesting and things gets anywhere lost.. especially due to "callback" situation with the command and lambda use. looks like others were confused with textvariable too (recommendation is there not to use it.. Tkinter Entry not showing the current value of textvariable )Like you, I was using textvariable initialized with .set('is it there?') in an init part, and re-used later in an entry, dont show the text 'is it there'. Sorry for not having a clear solution, but it looks like the life can go on without this textvariable.the best summary link I could find till now is there How to pass arguments to a Button command in Tkinter?  . everything is there: lambda explained, callback explained a bit, textvariable not updated in the called function due to callback situation, use global variables for making changes in parameter etc.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/functional.html#small-functions-and-the-lambda-expression
