Natural Text
function anagrams(s1, s2) is a Boolean valued function, which returns true just in case the string s1 contains the same letters as string s2 but in a different order. The function should be case insensitive --- in other words it should return the same value if any letters in either s1 or s2 are changed from upper to lower case or from lower to upper case. You may assume that the input strings contain only letters.The function find_all_anagrams(string) takes a string as input and returns a list of all words in the file english_words.txt that are anagrams of the input string.the function should return a list [word1, ..., wordN] such that each word in this list is a word in the dictionary file such that the value function anagrams(string, word) are TrueERROR kept saying this: AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute 'lower'for example,word_list contains:['pyruvates', 'python', 'pythoness', 'pythonesses', 'pythonic', 'pythons', 'pyuria', 'pyurias', 'pyx', 'pyxes']Expected output belowPart of the txt file shown on the right:Update:I think I just solved it,here are my codes:
You are using split() function at this part:Let's see what the documentation tells us about that function:str.split(sep=None, maxsplit=-1)Return a list of the words in the  string, using sep as the delimiter string. If maxsplit is given, at  most maxsplit splits are done (thus, the list will have at most  maxsplit+1 elements). If maxsplit is not specified or -1, then there  is no limit on the number of splits (all possible splits are made).It returns a list, and you added that list to your own list. I can see that  is meant to hold lines of words. Let's assume that  looks like this:What happens after ? Output:As you can see, elements are individual lists. At this part of your code: is a list, therefore here: is trying to call lower method on a list, which isn't a valid method for a  object, and that's why Python is complaining.  List Comprehension might look "cool" but often using simple loops benefits your code's readability, and in some cases might even avoid mistakes like this one. Here is my alternative:see the output:Single words as you intended.
As indicated by the error message, list does not have an attribute  I guess what you meant do to is access a string within the list with a   attribute. For example:where index corresponds to the string position within the list.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.split
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.lower
