Natural Text
I'm new to python and I am having some difficulties getting my script to do what I need and I need some help. My code probably could be sorted a lot better too, I'm sorry if it is messy. The entire script is simply automating a manual task. The steps are the following:Opens a browser with two tabs logging in to two websites, one in each tabreads and copies 1st line in text file test.txt, containing an emailPaste the value of first line to textfield on webpage1 and presses RETURNfetching some data on the webpage1 using seleniumit pastes values on webpage2 and sends an SMS on webpage27.copies output from webpage2Opens third URL, and paste output from webpage2Repeat from step 3(?)All this works wonders currently, but when the whole script is finished, I want it to return to step 3, but this time reading line 2 in the text file. Perform steps 3-8 again before reading line 3 and so on.. How can I do this?The idea is that I have a .txt file containing many many email addresses, one per line, where my scripts goes through this process on each individual address.If possible I would also like the script to append "- Successful" to each line after being read. So the script will run x amount of times, depending on how many lines there are in test.txtIf possible it would be nice to have some error handling as well, i.e move to next line in file if any errors.Here is my full code, I had to remove the URL's and some sensitive values, I hope it's understandable. The part i'm having trouble with is highlighted below:How could I achieve what I want here? Appreciate any help!Edit:So the part i'm interested in is this:How can I make it read line 2 the next time searchB() is called?
The first thing i see is that every time  is called you are looping through the entire contents of the test.txt file.Wont stop until it hits EOF. Instead of putting the loop in your  function, maybe put it in the main, that way you can have more control and call  on any line in the test.txt file you want.For logging you want to take a looking at the logging library, that will allow you to specify a log file and put logging messages after something is written or a call fails. It would be super annoying to append  to the end of the lines.
I solved this problem by moving the loop to main function like this:With my searchB() function like this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html
