Natural Text
So I keep receiving this error:ValueError: Mixing iteration and read methods would lose dataAnd 1) I don't quite understand why I'm receiving it, and 2) people with similar problems seem to be doing things with their code which are much more complex than a beginner (like myself) can adapt with.The idea of my code is to read a data_file.txt and convert each line into its own individual array.so far I have this:And I keep recieving an error."Value error: Mixing iteration and read methods would lose data "message while extracting numbers from a string from a .txt file using pythonThe above question seemed to be doing something similar, calling in items for an array, however his code was skipping lines and using a range to call in certain parts of it, I don't need that. All I need is to call in all the lines and have them be made into an array.Python: Mixing files and loopsIn this question, once again, something much more than I can understand was being asked. From what I understood, he just wanted a code that would restart after an error and continue, and the answers were about that part. Once again not what I'm looking for. 
The error is pretty much self-explanatory (once you know what it is about), so here goes.You start with the loop for line in input_file:. File objects are iterable in Python. They iterate over the lines in the file. This means that for each iteration of the loop, line will contain the next line in your file.Next you read a line manually line = input_file.readlines(). This attempts to read a line from the file, but you are already iterating over the lines in the for loop.Files are usually read sequentially, with no going backwards. What you end up with is a conflict. If you read a line using readline, the iterator in the loop will be forced to return the line after next since it can not go back. However, it is promising to return the next line. The error is telling you that readline knows that there is an active iterator and that calling it would interfere with the loop.If you take out line = input_file.readlines(), the loop will do what you expect it to.
To make an array of the lines of the file, with one line per array element:since readlines will give you the whole file in one shot.  Alternatively,  will do the same per the docs.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#methods-of-file-objects
