Natural Text
I know that wheels are binary version of a module uploaded on PyPI.with pip installOn Windows: I get wheels downloaded and installed.On Ubuntu: I should get the source distribution of the package BUT in some cases I get wheels.On fedora: Tricky I have to install with dnfI tried to add wheels to my package as well. But I am only able to upload wheels for windows.Why do some packages provide wheels for Linux platform?Is this okay? Providing binaries instead of the source?Why I cannot provide wheels?Note: I know a bit about Fedora rpm packages. I am interested now in wheels on Ubuntu.
Why do some packages provide wheels for Linux platform?Why shouldn't they, as long as source distributions are available as well? :)Your question is not clear. If you meantWhy do some packages provide platform-specific wheels for Linux platform instead of platfom-independent ones?then take a look at this question and its answers. If not, please clarify your question.On Ubuntu: I should get the source distribution of the package BUT in some cases I get wheels.Try using:This should make pip download a source distribution if it exists on PyPI. I don't know why there are no source packages for PyQt5 on PyPI, probably because they are not installable with pip and need a whole toolchaing for compilation.Is this okay? Providing binaries instead of the source?It's okay as long as you provide both binaries and the source. I suggest you doing so.Why I cannot provide wheels?Try python setup.py bdist_wheel. You need to install wheel package (on PyPI) to make it work. If your package supports both Python 2 and 3 and contains no C extensions, append the --universal option to make a "universal wheel".Replace bdist_wheel with sdist to make a source distribution. It will create an archive in dist directory.sdist creates the archive of the default format for the current platform. The default format is a gzip’ed tar file (.tar.gz) on Unix, and ZIP file on Windows.You can specify as many formats as you like using the --formats option, for example:to create a gzipped tarball and a zip file(Quote from https://docs.python.org/3/distutils/sourcedist.html)More info about packaging and wheels is available here: https://packaging.python.org/distributing/#packaging-your-project


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/distutils/sourcedist.html
