Natural Text
Here is the problem from the school. I don't want a complete code back please I am struggling with 1 part of it and that is making the user input be both a string and an integer separated by a comma. That is the main part I am needing assistance with if you could please help with the syntax for that it would be appreciated. (Section 3)6.7 Program: Data visualization (Python 3)This section has been set as optional by your instructor.(1) Prompt the user for a title for data. Output the title. (1 pt)Ex:Enter a title for the data: Number of Novels AuthoredYou entered: Number of Novels Authored(2) Prompt the user for the headers of two columns of a table. Output the column headers. (1 pt)Ex:Enter the column 1 header: Author nameYou entered: Author nameEnter the column 2 header: Number of novelsYou entered: Number of novels(3) Prompt the user for data points. Data points must be in this format: string, int. Store the information before the comma into a string variable and the information after the comma into an integer. The user will enter -1 when they have finished entering data points. Output the data points. Store the string components of the data points in a list of strings. Store the integer components of the data points in a list of integers. (4 pts)Ex:Enter a data point (-1 to stop input): Jane Austen, 6Data string: Jane AustenData integer: 6(4) Perform error checking for the data point entries. If any of the following errors occurs, output the appropriate error message and prompt again for a valid data point.If entry has no commaOutput: Error: No comma in string. (1 pt)If entry has more than one commaOutput: Error: Too many commas in input. (1 pt)If entry after the comma is not an integerOutput: Error: Comma not followed by an integer. (2 pts)Ex:Enter a data point (-1 to stop input): Ernest Hemingway 9Error: No comma in string.Enter a data point (-1 to stop input): Ernest, Hemingway, 9Error: Too many commas in input.Enter a data point (-1 to stop input): Ernest Hemingway, nineError: Comma not followed by an integer.Enter a valid data point: Ernest Hemingway, 9Data string: Ernest HemingwayData integer: 9(5) Output the information in a formatted table. The title is right justified with a minimum field width value of 33. Column 1 has a minimum field width value of 20. Column 2 has a minimum field width value of 23. (3 pts)Ex:(6) Output the information as a formatted histogram. Each name is right justified with a minimum field width value of 20. (4 pts)Ex:
If you know all of the names in advance, you can easily use a dictionary  and set numbers of novels to 0 and allow the user to change them one at a time.It looks from your example that the user will be inputting the author name also.  In which case you will be very close to nearly copy and paste the code here: https://www.programiz.com/python-programming/dictionaryalso reference:https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.htmlAfter you build the dictionary you can use a loop to walk through the dictionary:then use formatted print() to get the data output looking good.Finally use a for loop to append asterix to a string for the histogram.Good Luck!  :-}


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
