Natural Text
I read the other threads that had to do with this error and it seems that my problem has an interesting distinct difference than all the posts I read so far, namely, all the other posts so far have the error in regards to either a user created class or a builtin system resource. I am experiencing this problem when calling a function, I can't figure out what it could be for. Any ideas?Error message:
This happens when a keyword argument is specified that overwrites a positional argument. For example, let's imagine a function that draws a colored box. The function selects the color to be used and delegates the drawing of the box to another function, relaying all extra arguments.Then the callwill fail because two values are assigned to :  as positional and  as keyword. ( is supposed to accept the  and  arguments).This is easy to see in the example, but of course if one mixes up the arguments at call, it may not be easy to debug:Here,  is assigned , then  and  is again assigned .
I had the same problem that is really easy to make, but took me a while to see through.I had copied the declaration to where I was using it and had left the 'self' argument there, but it took me ages to realise that.I hadbut it should have been 
This also happens if you forget declaration inside class methods.Example:Fails calling it like  with:{TypeError} is_overlapping() got multiple values for argument 'x1'WORKS:
My issue was similar to Q---ten's, but in my case it was that I had forgotten to provide the self argument to a class function:Should becomeThis faulty implementation is hard to see when calling the class method as:Which will yield a . Hopefully, the rest of the answers here are clear enough for anyone to be able to quickly understand and fix the error. If not, hope this answer helps you!
Simply put you can't do the following:Because you pass the variable 'y' into the function twice: once as kwargs and once as function declaration.
I was brought here for a reason not explicitly mentioned in the answers so far, so to save others the trouble:The error also occurs if the function arguments have changed order - for the same reason as in the accepted answer: the positional arguments clash with the keyword arguments.In my case it was because the argument order of the Pandas  function changed between 0.20 and 0.22:Using the commonly found examples for set_axis results in this confusing error, since when you call:prior to 0.22,  is assigned to axis because it's the first argument, and then the positional argument provides "multiple values".


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#keyword-arguments
