Natural Text
I am relatively new to working with csv files in python and would appreciate some guidiance. I have 6 separate csv files. I would like to copy data from column 1, column 2 and column 3 from each of the csv files into the corresponding first 3 columns in a new file.How do I word that into my code?Here is my incomplete code:Thanks!
If you just want these all concatenated, that's easy. You can either call  on each of your iterators, or  them together:Or, if you want them interleaved, where you get row 1 from Data1, then row 1 from Data 2, and so on, and then row 2 from Data 1, etc., use  to transpose the data, and then  again to flatten it:If the files are of different lengths, that  will stop as soon as you reach the end of any of the files. Is that what you want? I have no idea. You might want that. You might want to fill in the gaps with blank rows (in which case look at ). You might want to skip over the gaps (which you can do with  plus ). Or a million other possibilities.As a side note, once you get to this many similar variables, it's usually a good sign that you really wanted a single iterable instead of separate variables. For example:(Notice that I used list comprehensions, not generator expressions, for the collections of files, readers, data, etc. That's because we need to iterate over them repeatedly—e.g., create a  for every file, and later call  on every file. Also because there are a fixed, small number of elements—6—so "wasting" a whole list isn't really any issue.)
The way I understand your question is that you have six separate csv's that have 3 columns each and the data in each column is of the same type in all six files.  If so you could use pandas.  Say you had 3 files that looked like ... and then a second and third file with 2's in the second and 3's in the third you could write...Then data_final should have the contents of all three data sets stacked on each other.  You can modify for 6 (or n) datasets.  Hope this is what you wanted.


Answer URL
