Natural Text
I'm trying to use a python app on a server for the first time.  I started by adding setuptools as root:Cool. Then I try setup.py:This directory  is owned by root, so that makes sense.My question is, should I chmod the site-packages directory, or should I be running setup.py as root?
The traditional way to install stuff system-wide as a non-root user is to use . Which is why you see things like this all over the Python docs:Some people prefer to instead make the site-packages group-writable by some "dev" group so you don't need to do this. (This is effectively what the Mac package manager Homebrew does.)Alternatively, you can install into per-user site packages. Not every project can do this, but anything based on modern  should be able to do so.And, while we're at it, if you're installing stuff based on modern , it's probably better to  instead of  anyway. That will, among other benefits, create egg-info files so the package can be detected as a dependency, uninstalled, etc.See the Python Packaging User Guide for more information.Finally, you may want to consider using a virtual environment. With Python 3.3+, this is built in as , although it doesn't have its own  until 3.4. With earlier versions of Python, you can install  off PyPI.Many hosted server environments for Python (2.x or 3.x) come with  pre-installed. If not, installing it system-wide will of course require you to be root… but after that, you will be able to install (most) other packages into per-project virtual environments instead of system-wide.
Installing packages with pip/easy_install and running directly setup.py files require root privileges because they read/write in those restricted folders.Usually hosts like www.openshift.com support a virtualenv for you so you just activate it and you have your own per-user environment. Affecting the global site-packages is usually forbidden since it may be a shared host.In my experience, in a local ubuntu-installed laptop, I have two options:Run installs as sudoRun installs in a virtualenvperhaps your host, if shared, supports virtualenv. Try asking them if it doesn't support it.


Answer URL
