Natural Text
I've noticed in a lot of examples there are "import ..." as such in Haskell;Do you have to create those import packages or are they already included in the programming language (or computer).If you don't need to create an import, then where do you get it and can you view the coding?
A Haskell-centric answer:This line imports the showHex function within the Numeric module. Modules are groups of functions, data types and other such things, arranged in a way to allow easy reuse. Some modules come with the basic installation of the compiler, others you can install later on (in Haskell, they are distributed as packages, which you can install with tools such as cabal-install), and finally there are those you define for use in your programs. In fact, the snippet you included in your question is the beginning of a module, called PrettyJSON, which makes the renderJValue function available when you import it elsewhere.and can you view the coding?Most Haskell packages written by other people that you can install are distributed through Hackage. By browsing Hackage, you can find documentation for the packages and their modules, as well as read their source code. For instance, here is the definition of showHex in the Numeric module. (By the way, Numeric is part of the base package. base comes with the compiler, and so you don't need to install anything else to use it.)
If you are talking about Python, all the packages are already pre-included.For example:or:and then you can use the function within that package, do check out the Python Docs for more information on the various packages. This is just a short example:
Importing packages allows you to leverage the power of these languages in a convenient way. Some packages are modules that come built-in with the language of your choice and some are built by programmers to create added functionality. From the Python docs: Python provides standardized solutions for many problems that occur in everyday programming.Check out this simple example in Python in which you create a `fibo.py file and then import it in your terminal like so:And perform Fibbonacci evaluations on a range of numbers. I suggest you read over the docs regarding Modules and more examples on how to use them, that might help clarify some of your questions.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/
