Natural Text
I am not able to convertthe following to unicode, but cannot, getting the errorUnicodeDecodeError: 'ascii' codec can't decode byte 0xc3 in position 7: ordinal not in range(128)I would like to getas a result.
Your string is already in utf-8. You need to decode it to Unicode in order to use it inside Python:But you have a bigger problem: You are clearly using Python 2. Switch to Python 3 immediately, there is no reason to drive yourself crazy trying to understand the Python 2 approach to handling character encodings. Switch to Python 3 and you will not have to bang your head against your desk several times a day. (Note that although you were calling the encode() method, you got a UnicodeDecodeError. A simple explanation:In Python, unicode and utf-8 are different things. A str in Python 2 might be in the "utf-8" encoding, unicode objects have no encoding.If you try to use a str for something that requires unicode (e.g., to encode() it), or vice versa, Python 2 will try to implicitly convert it first. Except it doesn't know the encoding of your strings, so it guesses (ascii, in your case). Oops.Python2 has a lot of implicit conversions. But really the reason is simple: You are not using Python 3.Edit: Since Python 3 is not an option, here is some practical advice:Unicode sandwich: Convert all text to Unicode as soon as it's read in, work with unicode strings and encode back to a utf8 str only to write it out again.Pandas should still support the encoding argument to to_csv(), even on Python 2. Use it to write your files in utf8.For reading a file directly, use codecs.open() instead of plain open() to read files. It accepts the encoding= argument and will give you unicode strings.  
You need to use decode utf-8 encoded string to unicode instead.
in python 3 you'd need to decode the bytes that are your encoded string:in python 2 the b is not necessary (here the distinction between bytes and strings is less strict...).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#bytes.decode
