Natural Text
I have installed python 2 after installing python 3.And now when I executing my python file by clicking on file (not by cmd) its run python 2 ,but I want python 3.I have tried script:output was:Can someone help me to make python 3 default on my pc. So when i run my file,it execute Python 3.Sorry for bad English.
If the current default windows application for .py files is currently python2 (i.e. C:\python27\python.exe) and not the new py.exe launcher, you can just change the default windows application for the file type.  Right-click on file -> properties -> click the change button for default application and change it to the python3 executable.If the default application for the file is the py.exe windows launcher, you can add a shebang line in your scripts to force the python executable and the launcher should respect it.  Add this as the first line of your fileIf you're python3 installation path is different, make sure to use that instead.
On cmd you can do py -3 for python 3 and py -2 for 2 but for click-starting the simplest way is to include a line #! python2 or #! python3as first line in file.You were on the right trach - it is mentioned in PEP 397 in section "Shebang line parsing" 
Assuming you have python3 installed, you can us virtual environment mechanisms built into python3 to prevent errors just like this. I saw in the comments you are using Windows, so the following steps to ensure that you are using the intended version of Python every time.first navigate to your projects directory and run the command:c:\Temp>c:\Python35\python -m venv myenv. This will create a directory myenv with scripts to create your virtual enviroment.Next activate your virtual enviroment with the command:C:\> .\myenv\Scripts\activate.bat. This will change your environment to what is set in the virtual environment.   Now run the command python to see that python 3.5 is being run.to exit the virtual environment just run deactivate.bat 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/scripts.html
