Natural Text
Yes, this question has been asked, but I cannot seem to apply the answers to my problem. There are several parts to this problem, and this is the biggest obstacle I've hit.I need to generate a random list of 10 numbers between 10 & 90. From those random numbers, I need to sum the totals of both the even and odd numbers.When I run this, sometimes I get one or two numbers (usually the first two odd numbers), but mostly I get TypeError: 'int' object is not iterable. Not gonna lie - my first language is PHP, not Python and that's becoming a huge problem for me :(Any help is appreciated.
Creating list with randomsGetting even and odds:
You should be doing this.
There are a few things you seem to have misunderstood:range(10) will give you (something that looks like) this list [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9].You can use it with a for-loop to do something 10 timesrandom.randint(10, 90) will give you a single random number between 10 and 90 (not a list)With this information we can change your script to:But we can do better. You will learn that in Python, you will want very often to define a list (or an iterable) with the terms you need then do something with every term. So we can change your script to:random_numbers = [random.randint(10, 90) for x in range(10)] is using a list comprehension to generate a list of 10 random numbers. You can then do a for-loop on each of these numbers where you can add to the evens' sum or to the odds' sum.You can even simplify it even further like in @Take_Care_ 's answer but I guess you have a lot more to learn before you reach this level.
As mentioned the comments, you can't write for x in followed by a number. I guess what you want is for x in range(my_nums) rather than for x in my_nums.
This is ultimately what I needed:Thanks to everyone for their help...yes I know the call to run the function is missing - like I said this is just one part of the program :)
Following code works:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#list-comprehensions
