Natural Text
I have the following dateTime text type variable in Postgres tableI have to write a Python function to extract the data for a few variables between two datesI need to create dStart and dEnd variables and use them as function parameters as belowI tried using to_char("dateTime", 'YYYY-MM-DD') Postgres function but didn't work out. Please let me know how to solve this
When working with sql, you should always use your sql library to substitute parameters into the query, instead of using Python's string operators. This avoids the risk of malformed queries or sql injection attacks. See e.g., this page. Right now your code won't run because it directly inserts dStart and dEnd without any quoting, so they are interpreted as mathematical expressions (2016 - 5 - 12 = 1999).There's also a secondary problem that your query will exclude dateTime values on the end date, because endDate will be treated as having a time value of 00:00:00 when it is compared to dateTime. And if you use to_char() or some other function to extract just the date from the dateTime column to do the comparison, it will prevent your query from using indexes, making it very inefficient. Here is some revised code that may work for you:This code relies on a few assumptions (welcome to the wonderful world of datetime querying!): you will pass dStart and dEnd to fn(), instead of just a single dateTime, the dateTime column is type timestamp with timezone (not text), the timezones in the dateTime column are correct, andthe dates given by dStart and dEnd are in the server's timezone or you have used SET TIMEZONE ... with your engine object to select the right time zone to use for this session.NotesDifferent database engines use different placeholders for the parameters, so you will need to check your database driver's documentation to decide what placeholders to use. The code above should work fine for postgresql.With the code above, dStart and dEnd will be inserted into the query as strings, and postgresql automatically convert them into timestamps when it runs the query. This should work fine for the example dates you gave, but if you need more direct control, you have two options:call fn() with Python date or datetime values for dStart and dEnd, and the code above will insert them into the query as postgresql dates or timestamps; or explicitly convert the dStart and dEnd strings into postgresql dates by replacing %(start)s and %(end)s with something like this: to_date(%(start)s, 'YYYY-MM-DD').
I'm not familiar with postgresql, but you can convert the strings to the struct_time class which is part of the built in time package in Python and simply make comparisons between them.The time.strptime routine uses a format specifiers to specify which parts of the string correspond to different time components.  


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/time.html
