Natural Text
I am modifying a existing Python code, I see  with content like belowThe Python program has:I have 2 questions, firstly, What is this format in config.py called? can I call it as Python built-in data structure? because this is not JSON.Secondly, how can I update the config.py entry (or add new person), for example, how to change  to ? or add a new person   ?I am using python3.
The format is just plain executable Python source code.This format is generally not used when you need to programmatically change the contents, but a human being with some basic Python knowledge can edit it in a simple text editor.For example, to change Sara's phone number in your text editor, you just go to this line:… and change it to this:Similarly, to add another person, you can copy and paste one of the existing people's entries and edit it.But if you wanted to have your script edit this file, it would need to parse the Python source (e.g., using the  module), map the assignments to a set of key-value pairs, modify the value, turn the result back into a set of assignments, then turn that back into source code. Or it could do something a little simpler and hackier with the same effect. But the point is, there's no clear and easy way to edit this file programmatically. I don't want to provide code that does this parsing and generating, because it's really not something you should be doing if you don't know how, and haven't thought through the safety implications, etc.If you want a config file you can edit programmatically, replace it with something like JSON. That's just as easy for a human to edit, but it has the added benefit of also being easy for your program to edit, and being inherently safe from mistaken or malicious bad data.If you or your users already have deployments using the  format, you can write migration code that falls back to the "legacy" config file if the JSON file can't be found, something like this:(If the old code used, e.g.,  instead of , do the same thing here, of course.)
You can use update method for adding new entry in dictionary :for updating the existing the value you can use the name as key and another key for age or male or sex
It's just a regular .Most probably, this file is imported like a module, after which you can access  as a Python object.Now, this config format is not supposed to be programmatically overwritten, and for a good reason: a  is code rather than data and can have arbitrary logic in it. If you wish to do it anyway, you'll need to jump through hoops. If you only need structured data, without any logic, you'll be better off with JSON (see the  module).That said, here's the plan how it will look like:Choose what the resulting file contents will look like. Options include:Overwrite the entire file with  of the Overwrite the entire file with  of the Edit the file line by line by handAt an appropriate moment, write the chosen representation into the file. Its path can be found as .


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#repr
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pprint.html?highlight=pprint#pprint.pprint
https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html
