Natural Text
This may be a simple task, but I am unsure of how to achieve this in Python.I have a for loop executing on an index in Python. I have a unique value that is defined within each iteration that is cycled through the for loop.I want to get the value of the NEXT or PREVIOUS for loop unique value. For example, I have:So how do I get the random number from the previous (or next) iteration to use in the CURRENT iteration in Python? For example:How do I call specific values from iterations in for loops?
its late in the day, but this might do you..
Option 1Use enumerate. If you want the current and next, you'll need to iterate till len(rect) - 1. If you want the previous and current, you'll need to start iterating from 1.Or, Option 2You can use zip to the same effect:
As written, you can save the value from the previous loop iteration before assigning a new one.Of course you will have to assign something to randomnumber before the loop starts so that the assignment works the very first time through.An alternative would be to loop over pairs of random numbers rather than computing one random number per loop iteration. For this you can use the pairwise() tool whose implementation is given in the itertools documentation or e.g. in the more-itertools package. Looping over pairs of random numbers could be done like this:where I have used another itertool, repeatfunc(), to repeatedly call randint(). (You can do this without using repeatfunc() too.) At each iteration of this loop except the first, rand1 will be equal to rand2 from the previous iteration.Now, you're going to want to pair each random number with a rectangle (assuming that's what is in rects), right? That you can do using zip(). Specifically, zip(random_numbers, rects) is an iterator over tuples of a random number and a rectangle. You could use it like so:but you're going to want to iterate over pairs, so you combine pairwise with that:Here random_numbers could be that thing I did earlier with repeatfunc(). This will associate one random number with each rectangle, and give you access to each set of two consecutive number/rectangle pairs.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html
