Natural Text
I need to use 'requests' and a function from . In the codeyou can see the  library is being imported, but at the same time it is a module/package inside , which has already been imported too. Doing some research I've found that Python comes with the  package, that comes with the  module. On the other hand,  is a module inside , but it is a library on its own. and  are standard Python librares, but  is a completely separated library with a confusing name. A portion of it has been included in the standard library and  depends on it, but it is not a newer version of /; the library that actually wants to improve is  (ref: Github). "Under the hood, requests uses urllib3 to do most of the http heavy lifting. When used properly, it should be mostly the same unless you need more advanced configuration"  (ref: Stackexchange):I got to these conclusions but I'm still confused: if I have already imported , do I still need to import ? What if I had imported ?  Also, should  be imported separately, as in the depicted code, or should it be import imported from one of the mentioned libraries?
If you are using the  module, then that's the only thing you need to import. The rest is taken care of for you by Python. That  is used by  is an implementation detail, unless you need to access specific objects defined by the  library you don't need to import that into your codebase. is not a module inside . The  module defines a  (singular!) module, which is something completely different from the  package:Note that  is a module inside the  package namespace.  (no ) would not import it, as that requests a top-level name. Neither would , as that would be a different namespace from . And just because the names  and  are similar does not mean that they are the same thing. The HTTP standard deals with the abstract concept of a request sent to a server and the server giving back a response, so names in different projects dealing with HTTP will often reflect the concepts that they represent in code.The same applies to the names  and . Python, once upon a time, started with a  package that was limited, and later on a  package was added to that extended the first and added more functionality. Python 3 consolidated the two packages and reorganised the functionality into a series of new modules under the  namespace. The  package is an independent project to build a better library for the same functionality. No parts of that project are incorporated into the Python standard library. is an project that gives you a clean, straightforward, easy to use API to make HTTP requests and handle the resulting responses. Use it for that API, don't worry about the implementation details.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/urllib.html
