Natural Text
I'm pretty new, so I'm gonna try to be explicit and pertinent enough with my question.I'm trying to parse my xml file with Python, and I would like to get the "PlayerRef", the "Position" of the player, and the "Statistic". When I run my code, there is no error returned into the Python Shell, but nothing happened, when (I think) I should get the parsing of my code (with the ID, the Position and the Stat of the player)Here is my code :I tried a lot of differents codes, and I got the same thing, no error into the shell but, no results as well.Here my xml: I have probably done something wrong inside my "for" codehow to solve this issue?Thanks in advance for your time ad your answer
The '+' and '-' preceding each tag appears to be an artifact of copying from some interactive XML browsing tool. They look like common expand/collapse UI components.  It would be more helpful to have just the actual XML that is in your file.The sample you posted can not be parsed, as-is, without making assumptions about the actual structure of your document.  So I assumed that the start tags shown with a preceding '+' are in fact incomplete and converted them to self-closing tags.  I then added in the necessary close tags at the end in order to be able to try your code.I will show you how I approached your problem and solved it, rather than simply giving a working result.  First I reduced your program to the simplest piece that should produce expected results:This showed me that the file was parsed, and the root is an element named .  It also shows that the  returned no elements.Then I tried this:This printed a list of  elements.  Reading the documentation for  confirms that it starts at the root element and searches for subelements.  Since  is not a subelement of , it is not found.Then I proceeded:This didn't match anything, so I looked more carefully at the XML document.  Unless the assumptions I made (noted earlier) to make the XMl well-formed are incorrect,  contains , not .The correct path to find the  elements is this:Then the program crashed trying to process the  elements because  (and ) are attributes, not subelements, of .  According to the documentation for  objects, you want to call  to get the value of an attribute.The solution, then is:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html?highlight=elementtree#xml.etree.ElementTree.ElementTree.findall
https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html?highlight=elementtree#xml.etree.ElementTree.Element.get
