Natural Text
I've installed python on mac with homebrew. Some tools (pipenv for example) have some troubles because they try to write to , not permitted under mac. After some investigation I found that they start a new python interpreter found in  that is effectively inconsistent with the python path installed by homebrew.I would expect that these path points to the same binary, why is it not so? How can I control ?
It is determined at runtime (by the  function in , to be exact. It is usually based of the  value that the OS passed in.You can set an alternative value by setting the  environment variable.However, on homebrew builds, a bit more is going on. Homebrew forces the issue and sets  directly in a  module generated at install time:This blithely ignores  even if set.So what is going on, why does homebrew clobber ?Homebrew Python is a MacOS framework build, so you can run GUI apps with this Python binary. A binary inside a framework bundle is placed under very strict requirements by Apple as to what you can do with it, including what the executable name is allowed to be set to. To work around these the framework binary is actually a wrapper ) that translates takes to a better path, sets the  environment variable and launches the actual python binary located at , which then uses the  environment variable to inform .The path the wrapper sets has any symlinks in the directory name resolved. Since homebrew makes  a symlink to a specific Python bottle directory, running  results in  being set to the linked bottle path:which defeats the purpose of the symlink, and can lead to broken pip-installed scripts each time homebrew makes a minor version update to the Python formula.I'd like for homebrew to at least check if  is set here. You can force the issue yourself by just setting  directly:I've opened a report to request the homebrew Python formula checks for  and included a suggested fix.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONEXECUTABLE
https://docs.python.org/3/library/site.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html#sys.argv
