Natural Text
the reason i have signed up here today is to ask for a hint to where i'm going wrong in this argument. i am very new to coding and was hoping i might be able to get some help. i feel i'm slightly cheating myself by asking for help so early, so if someone can explain where I've made mistakes i would like to try and figure out how to correct them, clues and hints would be appreciated but i would really like to understand where the errors are what to do to correct them and why, so please don't just paste the answer. thanksok here is my attempt at Writing a Car salesman program where the user enters the base price of a car. The program should add a bunch of extra fees such as tax, license, dealer prep, and destination charge. Make tax and license a percent of the base price. The other fees should be set values. Display the actual price of the car once all the extras are applied.the last time i ran the program i had a name error o.k. i hope this information helps and thank you for your time in advancealex
 is shorthand for . Which you have not yet defined. I think what you actually meant to write wasYou'll still have other issues with this program, though.
taxes *= 0.06 is shorthand for taxes = taxes * 0.06, , i.e., the new value of taxes is 0.06 times the old value of taxes. Thus the interpreter is complaining that you haven't defined taxes before using it on the right hand side.Presumably what you want is:or
You seem to be unclear on what the  and  operators do. What you want is to assign  (and the other variables) some values equal to  and so on. Use the  operator to assign values to a variable (like you did in the first line), and the  operator to multiply two values together (e.g. ).You've got this problem in several places, as well as an issue where I think you don't know what the  function does: if you just want to display a value, you should use the  function.I highly recommend going through the tutorials. They do a good job covering this sort of stuff.
The line  means, . Python is telling you that it doesn't know what the value of taxes is (because you haven't assigned it a value). and  have the same issue.
You are incorrectly using the  and  statements.You can't use the  statement unless you have defined  previously. Same is the case with  and .Also, the statement  is wrong, you need to pass a string as an argument to it. (http://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#input)Next, if you are using python 2.7, the usage of the input statement is incorrect - you should use  instead. (https://stackoverflow.com/a/3800862/1860929)There is an extra closing bracket in  statementYou are using an extra  after  due to which, the  of total will get escaped.Finally, you need to check the logic itself. As @Wayne has pointed in his answer, you probably want to do  and not Check the following code, I think you are looking for something similar


Answer URL
