Natural Text
If I have a list how can I check if any two neighboring elements are the same?For the example, this would be true for the elements at index 4 and 5 (which both have the value 4).
Or import the eq function and use instead of the lambda, and realize that map can iterate over multiple lists at once so you don't need zip:You can also smack on an from future_builtins import map if you are on Python 2. That makes map a lazy iterator instead of building the entire list of pairs, saving you RAM and perhaps runtime.
This is an efficient way for Python 3.x regarding memory and execution time.itertools.islice() creates an iterator that slices a sequence without creating a new sequence. map() then checks each time using operator.eq() if the item in the sequence and the item afterwards are equal.any() then iterates over the map and returns if any is True.For Python 2.x however, I would suggest this:due to the fact map in Python 2.x returns a list and not an iterator.
I might use an itertools.groupby:The code is fairly straight forward, but itertools will take the input iterable and break it into chunks where the values are equal.  I just look to see if any of the chunks has more than 1 element.  If yes, then you have adjacent duplicates.This has an upper bound/average time complexity of O(N) which is the best you can hope for an algorithm like this.  For some inputs though, it can be O(1) since it short circuits as soon as it finds a match (duplicates at the beginning of the iterable for instance).
I believe this is the most readable version:The evaluation of any will be lazy. Pairs are created on-demand by izip. If you are using Python 3, zip already does what izip does in Python 2.Explanation:will create tuples of pairs of adjacent elements. any is passed a generator expression to check whether any of these tuples has two of the same elements.If you want to optimize memory efficiency even further, call (i)zip like this:This will avoid creating the list a[1:].


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#map
