Natural Text
I'm new to programming and I recently started Python (3) in school. I'm having trouble understanding Functions. I've read some examples of Functions for example: def a (...). I understand "def" defines the functions and a names it, but I don't know what goes in the brackets, I heard its a parameter but when I Google it this comes up:What is a parameter in computing? In computer programming, a parameter is a special kind of variable, used in a subroutine to refer to one of the pieces of data provided as input to the subroutine. These pieces of data are called arguments.
Arguments, parameters, or input variables go within the brackets. These can be thought of as pieces of data you pass to a function for use within that function.For (a very basic) example: This function would take in a number and within the scope of this function that number would be known as num. A new variable that exists only within this function would be created, named my_other_number, initialized to the value of the input num plus 5. The function then returns the value of my_other_number.In usage it would look something like:Think of an argument like you would the variable of a mathematical function:
Try with an actual simple example:, a function to sum two numbers. The result (print sends stuff to the console so you are able to see) is: 5
Functions in programming are similar to functions in algebra. In algebra, functions are represented as f(x). In programming, they are defined using code but the representation is the same.So if f(x) = x^2 in algebra, in python, it will be:And in algebra, f(2) = 4. So, in python f(2) will return 4.
What will probably help you the most is using google in a slightly different manner. Try searching for definitions of things such as:these two examples, when searched on google, each line separately, will show you a definition of each term. Any time you use "define" first on google, it will search a definition of the term or phrase that follows.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial
