Natural Text
I need a way to get the value of a variable that was defined in a function outside of that function. It's not necessary but would make my code so much easier to follow. Haven't found any solid answers to this yet.this will return an error saying that pizza is not defined. Is there any hack to get around this.Too better understand my situation here is my code I'm applying it too.
You should probably read through the Tutorial section on functions - this is just about the most basic thing you use functions for. Your code sample is a giant mess, but here's a quick example of what you seem to be trying to do:Repeat for your other options, then you can do something like:There's much more cleanup that could be done, but this should get you started on a somewhat more sane structure.
Two ways to do this, one recommended and one not so much. You should not mess around with global variables unless you know what you're doing. What you are trying to do should 100% use a return. But to be inclusive I put it in because it could theoretically accomplish what you're trying to do. Best Practice: Using A ReturnBad Idea: Using Global VariablesReturning Multiple Variables
Return multiple values in a tuple return x, y, z and unpack the return value like x, y, z = func().You can use global variables. While setting values inside a function first declare global x and then x = something. But global variables are best avoided.If you find yourself changing global state a lot, using a class is more appropriate.You can use closures to maintain state. But that needs a different design and you should do it if you are comfortable with higher order functions. Closures are in principle lightweight and much faster than classes(Beazly). 
You're trying to print pizza but what is pizza? You haven't defined it anywhere except for in your function and you're not returning anything. It's a local variable whereas trying to print pizza outside of the scope of your function is looking for a global variable. You can check out this question for local vs. global variables. You could set pizza = pizzais() and then do print(pizza) if you set return "yummy" at the end of your function. Without using return at the end of your function it will return None by default.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functions
