Natural Text
This may be a simple task, but I am unsure of how to achieve this in Python.I have a for loop executing on an index in Python. I have a unique value that is defined within each iteration that is cycled through the for loop.I want to get the value of the NEXT or PREVIOUS for loop unique value. For example, I have:So how do I get the random number from the previous (or next) iteration to use in the CURRENT iteration in Python? For example:How do I call specific values from iterations in for loops?
its late in the day, but this might do you..
Option 1Use . If you want the current and next, you'll need to iterate till . If you want the previous and current, you'll need to start iterating from 1.Or, Option 2You can use  to the same effect:
As written, you can save the value from the previous loop iteration before assigning a new one.Of course you will have to assign something to  before the loop starts so that the assignment works the very first time through.An alternative would be to loop over pairs of random numbers rather than computing one random number per loop iteration. For this you can use the  tool whose implementation is given in the  documentation or e.g. in the  package. Looping over pairs of random numbers could be done like this:where I have used another itertool, , to repeatedly call . (You can do this without using  too.) At each iteration of this loop except the first,  will be equal to  from the previous iteration.Now, you're going to want to pair each random number with a rectangle (assuming that's what is in ), right? That you can do using . Specifically,  is an iterator over tuples of a random number and a rectangle. You could use it like so:but you're going to want to iterate over pairs, so you combine  with that:Here  could be that thing I did earlier with . This will associate one random number with each rectangle, and give you access to each set of two consecutive number/rectangle pairs.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html
