Natural Text
This code is meant to give the person the options to give averages, median, mode or quit however I can't get option 1 - 4 to work properly for what will happen when they select that option.
Because I don't think this is homework, but just someone trying to learn some Python I'm going to partially show how this can be done.First of all we are going to separate the program in easy to understand functions, the basis of which is going to be the  function:Notice that condition of this loop is always  and thus cannot be escaped. To add some logic we have to parse the user input:Now the program can exit the loop if the user inputs  and if they enter any other invalid value, the program simply shows the menu again and asks the user the input a value. Now let's fill in the part for the case when the input is either 1, 2 or 3. We edit the if statement to separate the cases these cases and create a new function to handle them:Alright, let's the next step would be to create the  function. However we first have to discuss the way we are going to handle the user input. The way you did it was to manually ask for ten different input values, and stored them under ten different variable names. What if we want the user to input 15 values, or 30, or 100? That would require a lot of repetitive coding. Luckily, there's a better way: we are going to store the user input in a list. This list can be as large as the user wants. Because the way we are going to ask the user to input the numbers will be the same across the three different operations, we are going to create a function that we can call each time. This function will be called . The logic of this function will look something like this:While not done:Ask the user for to input a numberCheck if it's a valid inputAppend the valid input to a listWe have already seen how to ask the user for input, however, unlike last time where only the numbers 1 to 4 were valid, now all numbers are valid input. Furthermore, last time we handled the input as a string, but to calculate the average we are going to need integer (or float) values. To convert a string to an integer we can cast the input: . However if the user doesn't enter a number but some non-numerical characters this function raises a . To handle this we have to catch the errors.Enough words, let's show some code:Here you can see that we try to cast the user input to an integer, but if it fails, the  is caught and the user is promptly reminded that they should input a number. Also note that this function starts with an empty list called  that is getting filled with the integer value if the cast doesn't fail. Lastly, note the conditional of the while loop, as of yet it's set to just some undefined variable, but what is the desired behavior? Firstly the input list has to contain atleast one element and secondly the user has to signal that they are done inputting values. In code this could be done like this:Now we start by setting the  to  so that we can use the variable in the conditional. Also we continue the loop if the input list is empty. Lastly, if the input list does contain numbers, we tell the user that they can type 'done' to exit the loop, which is reflected in the conditional of the loop. If the user is done, we return the list.Now we have created a generic solution to retrieving input from the user, we have to define the functions that implement the operations. Let's look at :As you can see, the solution is really easy. All we had to do was to calculate the average and print it. To calculate the average we can use the built-in method to calculate the sum of a list and divide it by the length of the list.Now the other two methods are a bit harder, but are left as an exercise for the reader ;)
I fixed several parts of your code for you, and put in comments explaining what I did.  There are several things that need fixing in this code, and I didn't fix them all. I explained what I did, so you should be able to go through and fix them, but if you have any questions leave a comment and I will explain as much as I can. As many people have said above, you should go through a python tutorial. Codecademy has a relatively good one.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html
