Natural Text
I have a PyQt5 application which runs perfectly on my development machine (Core i7 Windows 7), but has performance issues on my target platform (Linux Embedded ARM). I've been researching Python concurrency in further detail, prior to 'optimising' my current code (i.e. ensuring all UI code is in the MainThread, with all logic code in separate threads). I've learnt that the GIL largely prevents the CPython interpreter from realising true concurrency.My question: would I be better off using IronPython or Cython as the interpreter, or sending all the logic to an external non-Python function which can make use of multiple cores, and leave the PyQt application to simply update the UI? If the latter, which language would be well suited to high-speed, concurrent calculation?
If the latter, which language would be well suited to high-speed, concurrent calculation?You've written a lot about your system and yet not enough about what it actually does; what kind of "calculations" are you doing? — If you're doing anything heavily computational, it's very likely someone has worked very hard to make a hardware-optimized library to do these kinds of calculations, e.g. BLAS via scipy/numpy (see Arm's own website). You want to push as much work out of your own Python code and into their hands. The language you use to call these libraries is much less important. Python is already great for this kind of "gluing" work for such libraries. Note that even using built-in Python functions, such as using  instead of summing in a Python  loop, also pushes computation out of slow interpretation and into highly-optimized C code.Otherwise, without profiling your actual code, it's hard to say what would be best. After doing the above by efficiently formulating your calculations in a way that optimized libraries can best do their work (e.g. by properly vectorizing them), you can then use Python's  to divide up whatever Python logic is causing a bottleneck from that which isn't (see this answer on why  is often better than ). I'd wager this would be much more beneficial than just swapping out CPython for another implementation.Only once you've delegated as much computation to external libraries as possible and paralllelized as well as possible using  would I then start writing these computation-heavy processes in Cython, which could be considered a type of low-level optimization over the aforementioned architectural improvements.
echoing @errantlinguist, please be aware that parallel performance is highly application-dependent.To maintain GUI responsiveness, yes, I would just use a separate "worker" thread to keep the main thread available to handle GUI events.To do something "insanely parallel", like a Monte Carlo computation, where you have many many completely independent tasks which have minimal communication between them, I might try multiprocessing.If I were doing something like very large matrix operations, I would do it multithreaded. Anaconda will automatically parallelize some numpy operations via MKL on intel processors (but this will not help you on ARM). I believe you could look at something like numba to help you with this, if you stay in python. If you are unhappy with performance, you may want to try implementing in C++. If you use almost all vectorized numpy operations, you should not see a big difference from using C++, but as python loops, etc. start to creep in, you will probably begin to see big differences in performance (beyond the max 4x you will gain by parallelizing your python code over 4 cores). If you switch to C++ for matrix operations, I highly recommend the Eigen library. It's very fast and easy to understand at a high-level.Please be aware that when you use multithreading, you are usually in a shared memory context, which eliminates a lot of the expensive io you will encounter in multiprocessing, but it also introduces some classes of bugs you are not used to encountering in serial programs (when two threads begin to access the same resources). In multiprocessing, memory is usually separate, except for explicitly defined communications between the processes. In that sense, I find that multiprocessing code is typically easier to understand and debug.Also there are frameworks out there to handle complex computational graphs, with many steps, which may include both multithreading and multiprocessing (try dask).Good luck!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#sum
