Natural Text
So I'm trying to parse out JSON files into a tab delimited file. The parsing seems to work fine and all the data is coming through. Although the oddest thing is happening on the output file. I told it to use a tab delimiter and on the output it does use tabs, but it still seems to keep the single quotes. And for some reason it also seems to be adding the letter B to the beginning. I manually typed in the header, and that works fine, but the data itself is acting weird. Here's an example of the output I'm getting.Here is the code that I'm using to write the data out.So here's the thing. If i did this without the utf-8 bit and just output it straight, the formatting would be perfectly how i want it. But then when people type in special characters, the program crashes and isn't able to handle it.Adding the utf-8 bit converts it to the type of output you see here, but then it adds all these characters to the output. Does anyone have any thoughts on this?
You are writing byte data instead of unicode to your files, because you are encoding the data yourself.Remove the encode calls altogether and let Python handle this for you; open the file with the UTF8 encoding and the rest takes care of itself:This is documented in the csv module documentation:Since open() is used to open a CSV file for reading, the file will by default be decoded into unicode using the system default encoding (see locale.getpreferredencoding()). To decode a file using a different encoding, use the encoding argument of open:The same applies to writing in something other than the system default encoding: specify the encoding argument when opening the output file.
You've got multiple things going on here, but first, let's clear up a bit of confusion.Encoding non-ASCII characters to UTF-8 means you get multiple bytes. For example, the character 🏀 is \xf0\x9f\x8f\x80 in UTF-8. But that's still just one character, it's just a character that takes four bytes. If you write the string to a binary file, then look at that file in a UTF-8-compatible tool (Notepad or TextEdit, or just cat on a UTF-8-friendly terminal/shell), you'll see one 🏀, not four garbage characters.Second, b'abc' is not a string with b added to the beginning, it's the repr representation of the byte-string abc. The b is no more a part of the string than the quotes are.Finally, in Python 3, you can't open a file in text mode and then write byte strings to it. Either open it in text mode, with an encoding, and write normal unicode strings, or open it in binary mode and write encoded byte strings.


Answer URL
