Natural Text
I'm a beginner at Python just getting to grips with classes. I'm sure it's probably something very basic, but why does this code:Produce the following error:EDIT: I changed the code to this:But it returns:Again, this is coming from someone just starting with classes, so please don't be too harsh if I've done something glaringly obvious wrong. Thank you.
You assign a channel attribute in your __init__:This shadows the channel() method on the class. Rename the attribute or the method. Attributes on the instance trump those on the class (except for data descriptors; think propertys). From the Class definitions documentation:Variables defined in the class definition are class attributes; they are shared by instances. Instance attributes can be set in a method with self.name = value. Both class and instance attributes are accessible through the notation “self.name”, and an instance attribute hides a class attribute with the same name when accessed in this way.Your methods also expect a parameter that you are not passing in in your example, but I'm figuring you'll solve that yourself next.
You have a method called channel and a variable called channel.  The variable, which is an int, shadows the method (steals it's name so that you can't access it).  Rename wither the method or the variable and this will solve your problem.
Actually your code after the Edit exposed the problem Martijn was already indicating at. Your self.change() expects a parameter which you don't provide in myTele.change(). Since you are not using the parameter in the method, you should define change as:volume_up and volume_down actually assign a string to self.amount instead of calling a function. You probably want to change those toSince you are setting self.amount every time before using it, you can probably just make it a local variable to the method ( amount ). If you have future plans to have a method xyz() that uses self.amount without first setting it, you should make sure self.amount is set in __init__() to a reasonable value, in case xyz() is called before the volume changing methods.


Answer URL
