Natural Text
I tend to use only forward slashes for paths ('/') and python is happy with it also on windows.In the description of os.path.join it says that is the correct way if you want to go cross-platform. But when I use it I get mixed slashes:Is this correct? Should I check and correct it afterward or there is a better way?ThanksEDIT:I also get mixed slashes when asking for paths
You are now providing some of the slashes yourself and letting os.path.join pick others. It's better to let python pick all of them or provide them all yourself. Python uses backslashes for the latter part of the path, because backslashes are the default on Windows.I haven't tested this, but I hope this helps.  It's more common to have a base path and only having to join one other element, mostly files. By the way; you can use os.sep for those moments you want to have the best separator for the operating system python is running on. Edit: as dash-tom-bang states, apparently for Windows you do need to include a separator for the root of the path. Otherwise you create a relative path instead of an absolute one.
You can use .replace() after path.join() to ensure the slashes are correct:This gives the output:As @sharpcloud suggested, it would be better to remove the slashes from your input strings, however this is an alternative.
try using abspath (using python 3)OUTPUT:c:\myFirstDirectory\mySecondDirectory\myThirdDirectory\myExecutable.exeProcess finished with exit code 0
EDIT based on comment: path = os.path.normpath(path)My previous answer lacks the capability of handling escape characters and thus should not be used:First, convert the path to an array of folders and file name.Second, glue them back together using the correct symbol.
os adds slashes for you and makes sure not to duplicate slashes so omit them in your stringsAdditional:I'm unsure as to why you have mixed slashes in your sys path (have you used a linux os to add some folders?) but try checking print os.path.isdir(os.path.join('C:','Users','nookie')).If this is True then os works for your mixed slashes. Either way, I would avoid hard-coding directory names into your program.  Your sys.path for loop is a safe way to pull out these directories.  You can then use some string methods, or regex to pick the desired folder.
If for any reason you need to provide the paths yourself and you have using anything above python 3.4 you can use pathlibI used this when I needed a user to provide the location of an assets directory and my code was looking up using windows path strings


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html
