Natural Text
I see the below statement in the github link and would like to how this condition is executed. The right expression to the or checks for a condition but the left side is more of a assigment statement.https://github.com/wkentaro/labelme/blob/30a29a4a9c1f355cdbd69e65a0f3aad6948f458d/labelme/canvas.py#L464
In this context,  is a boolean attribute, so the code is equivalent to this:Does that help?
You're getting the precedence wrong.1This is an assignment statement, where the left side is the name , and the right side is the  expression. It's not an  statement, where the left side is an assignment and the right side is a comparison.In other words, it's equivalent to:And to avoid any other confusion, the  is evaluated before the , so it's ultimately equivalent to this:And hopefully you understand what that means.The implicit precedence rules2 for every operator, symbol, and keyword can be inferred by worked out by reading the syntax in the Reference Manual, starting from Top-level components and working down through statements (simple and complex) and expressions. Or you can read the Full Grammar specification for a more concise but less explanatory version.But since you're using Python, you might prefer to learn by experimentation rather than by manual. In that case, check out the  module:OK, that may be a bit hard to follow, but there are some nice third-party libs that format the tree more clearly. It comes down to this:So, you can see that there's an assignment () where the left side is the attribution () and the right side is the  expression ().1. Technically, there's no precedence going on, because  isn't even an operator in Python. But it's easier to think about it this way, and only a tiny bit misleading, and hopefully the next sentence clears it up.2. Again, the only explicit precedence rules are those that apply to operators, which doesn't include the  in your example. So you have to work out how the statement will be parsed, effectively the same way the parser does.
The  operator binds less tightly than the  you see on the left. Adding some parentheses may make the situation clearer:The parentheses I've added don't change anything in how the statement is evaluated. The two arguments to  are  (which is presumably a ), and the expression . The result of the  expression is what gets assigned to .
It is evaluating the same sort of statement you would see in an  statement.They are creating a boolean and assigning it to . Presumably,  is either  or . They are then applying a logical  with another boolean statement . In the end, it is of the form while evaluates to a boolean.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/toplevel_components.html
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/grammar.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/ast.html
