Natural Text
My question is the same asHow to remove case-insensitive duplicates from a list, while maintaining the original list order?except that I would also like the duplicate items to reflect the number of duplicates in the item string itself (in parentheses).Example input:The only acceptable output:Notes:Note that if an item () happens to contain another item (), I would still like to retain both items.So, the cases can differ, but the item must be a character-for-character match, for it to be removed.The original list order must be retained.All duplicates after the first instance of that item should be removed. The original case of that first instance should be preserved, as well as the original cases of all non-duplicate items.I am looking for the fastest method to accomplish this in Python 2.7.
Here is a version using a single , avoiding the use of another  as in @RoadRunner's solution by popping keys from the  as we pass them. This may be slightly slower than the OrderedDict solution if there are many duplicates, but will use less memory:Note You should use  instead of  for Python >= 3.3
In the original question, you presumably (I just glanced at it) used a  of the casefolded strings to see if you had a new one or a repeat, building a list of new ones as you go along.You can replace this with a  instead of a . But then you need to build the list and then go back and edit it with the counts.So instead, replace both the / and the output list with an  that stores item-count pairs for each case-folded item:… and then do a pass over that dict to generate the output list:You can make this more concise (e.g., ), and that will also make it a bit faster by a small constant factor. You can probably shave off a few nanoseconds by using  instead of  too, and possibly even more with  instead of  (although I think that last part no longer true even by 2.7).Depending on your platform,  may be faster or slower than . So try it both ways, and if  is faster, use  pairs instead of . If you have a ton of dups, you may want to consider a class with , which can actually be slightly faster to update, but significantly slower to create, than a list.Also, using an  test, or maybe storing  as a local, may be faster than —or it may be slower, depending on how many repeats you expect to have, so try it all three ways on your actual data rather than a toy dataset.
You could also try using a  object to keep track of the counts, and use it to keep track of what words have been seen, using caseless words as reference. Then when you are finished iterating over the input list, update the result list to have the word counts in the form , if the count is greater than 1. Code:Output:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.casefold
