Natural Text
I am implementing part of a C program in Python. This program uses glob(3) to find pathnames matching a pattern. This is a C function corresponding to the glob(7) shell builtin. They are specified in POSIX.2.What is the equivalent of the POSIX  in Python?I looked into the glob standard module but I am worried by the documentation: it does not mention POSIX anywhere, uses the fuzzy term "shell-like" and has some non-standard extensions such as wildstar  patterns for recursive expansion.Is it safe to use the  function if I do not use the  flag?My requirements are:Should match the results of , error handling can differShould work on both Python 2 and Python 3Only Linux support is requiredAnswers mentioning PyPi packages are fine, I prefer smaller packages that can be audited and vendored.I can use ctypes but I am looking for a Pythonic solution
Looking at how glob is implemented, it does not rely on  so it may, but is not guaranteed to yield identical results. Similar goes for POSIX compliance (apart form obviously extended functionality). There might be an overlap, but there is no guaranteed and it was apparently not the intention behind the module.You can basically rephrase the question asking yourself. What features/behavior do I really need and does  do what I specifically need? Chances are, it does.Or am I rather looking for a compliance statement (certification even) because for instance the project/customer/our company (for reasons only they know (or do not)) requires it. For which you are out of luck with , unless you do the auditing/paperwork yourself or hire someone to do it (note, the code for  is not that large). You can also (even though you said you did not want to) load  from  with . Or re-implement it in Python from scratch (or based on  for that matter) with the compatibility requirement in mind. As for the point on possible already existing alternatives, I'd defer that to further research and/or recommendations of others.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/glob.html
