Natural Text
I have some existing Python 3.6 code that I'd like to move to Python 3.7 dataclasses. I have  methods with nice docstring documentation, specifying the attributes the constructors take and their types.However, if I change these classes to use the new Python dataclasses in 3.7, the constructor is implicit. How do I provide constructor documentation in this case? I like the idea of dataclasses, but not if I have to forego clear documentation to use them.edited to clarify I'm using docstrings presently
The napoleon-style docstrings as they are described in the sphinx docs (see the  class for their take on it) explicitly touch on your case:The __init__ method may be documented in either the class level docstring, or as a docstring on the __init__ method itself.Meaning you can just paste your constructor info into the body of the class docstring.In case you build documents from your docstrings, these are the granularities that can be achieved:1) The bare minimum:2) Additional constructor parameter description:3) Additional attribute description:Parameter and attribute descriptions can of course be combined as well, but since dataclasses should be straight forward mappings I don't see a reason to do so. In my opinion, 1) would do for small or simple dataclasses -- it already includes the constructor signature with their respective types, which is plenty for a dataclass. If you want to say more about each attribute, 3) would serve best. 
A major advantage of dataclasses is that they are self-documenting. Assuming the reader of your code knows how dataclasses work (and your attributes are appropriately named), the type-annotated class attributes should be excellent documentation of the constructor. See this example from the official dataclass docs:If you don't expect that readers of your code would know how dataclasses work then you might want to reconsider using them or adding an explanation or link to the docs in an inline comment after the  decorator. If you really need a docstring for a dataclass, I'd recommend putting the constructor docstring within the class docstring. For the example above:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html
