Natural Text
I have two lists which are: and also I found the same values of both list by comparing the lists.Output isNow I want to find the next element value of the result. Here it would be: 'game' and 'cool'.How can I do this (using python 2.7)?
You could do a pairwise iteration over your list2 and do the "intersection" manually:
Given that you have the intersection wordsYou could find the next words in list2 like this:index gets you the index of the given element in the list. You can add 1 to it to get the next element.If your element is at the end of the list, it will throw an exception, because there is no "next" element to get.
You can use the index function and add 1. Be careful though, if your common element is the last one of your list, it will generate an erroredit For the case where you last element is a common element:Output: ['game', 'cool']
This does the trick for the next element in list2:
You could use list2.index, but that's doing a full search just for finding back an index, and artificially increasing complexity from O(n) to O(n*n).Just keep track of the indexes of each words.  There are several ways to do that.Create your own function that search for common words, and return them as the index of those words in list2.  This probably the least pythonic but the fastest.Create a dictionary from the words of list2 to their index, then after computing the set intersection, lookup on the dict to find the index and increase by one.  You need to build a full dictionary the size of list2, this might be expensive (but still better than O(n*n)).Create a dictionary from the words of list2 to their next word or None if there aren't and do a lookup on the dict to find the index.  You need to build a full dictionary the size of list2, this might be expensive.If you know how to use itertools, you could do an iterator on list2 that yield the index and the word, and filter the result if the word is in list1, then pick only the indexes.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#more-on-lists
