Natural Text
I am struggling with the following issue. I need to generate reports that consists of a collection of charts. All these charts, except one, are made using Matplotlib default backend (TkAgg). One chart needs to be made using the Cairo backend, the reason is that I am plotting an igraph graph and that can only be plotted using Cairo. The issue is that I cannot change backends on the fly, for example the following does not work:matplotlib.pyplot.switch_backend('cairo.png')(I know that the switch_backend functionality is experimental)and I have also tried matplotlib.use("cairo.png") but this leads to import problems as the matplotlib.use("cairo.png") statement should come before importing matplotlib.pyplot. but I need two different backends over the course of the life of the script. So my question is does someone have a code snippet that shows how to switch the backend in Matplotlib?Thanks so much!UPDATE:I have written a snippet that loads matplotlib, shows the default backend, unloads matplotlib, reloads it and changes the backend:but is this really the way to do it? UPDATE 2: I had some serious brain freeze yesterday... The simple and most obvious solution is to use the Cairo backend for all charts and not to switch the backend at all :)UPDATE 3: Actually, it's still an issue so anybody who knows how to dynamically switch matplotlib backends....please post your answer. 
Six years later and I came across a similar issue, when trying to decide which backend was available to use.This code snippet works well for me:As you can deduce, swapping the backend is as simple as re-importing matplotlib.pyplot after forcing the new backendFor those still having trouble, this code will print out the:list of Non Gui backends;the list of Gui backends;and then attempt to use each Gui backend to see if it is present and functioning.
There is an "experimental" feature : taken from matplotlib doc.Switch the default backend to newbackend.  This feature is      experimental, and is only expected to work switching to an      image backend.  Eg, if you have a bunch of PostScript scripts that      you want to run from an interactive ipython session, you may want      to switch to the PS backend before running them to avoid having a      bunch of GUI windows popup.  If you try to interactively switch      from one GUI backend to another, you will explode.      Calling this command will close all open windows.
Why not just use the reload built-in function (importlib.reload in Python 3)? 
So I am not completely sure if this is what you are looking for. You can change your backend through the matplotlibrc file which contains certain configurations for your matplotlib.In your script you can put: or something like that to switch between backends. 
You could also have a different Python process make that plot, possibly with the help of pickle or joblib.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/importlib.html#importlib.reload
