Natural Text
I'd like to know if there is a way to shorten what must be written on the  command line to run Python programs. As it is, I have a program called  and if I wanted to run that I would have to write:Basically I want to know if I could make the 'Python' folder on my computer default so I could just type  or some other similarly short way of doing it so I didn't have to type the whole directory.
Create a cmd.exe shortcut somewhere handy (Desktop or whatever). Right Click, select properties. Under the Shortcut tab you'll have a "Start In" field. It'll be default to wherever your cmd.exe normally opens. But you can change it to any path you want (So set it to your python development folder)-- then opening that shortcut will always start cmd.exe in the python folder.You don't need to type python.exe file.py -- Just type: python file.pySo in short, you'd click that shortcut and type python file.py and you are done.If you have specific scripts you want to run frequently, you can create a cmd.exe shortcut for each one. Set the Start In path to their folder. Then update the link to cmd.exe like this:That will open a cmd prompt and automatically run that specific script
Yes, you can cd into the folder first.
If python is in your default path you can create a folder and put all your python scripts in it. Then  into that folder and type . To test if python is in your path simply open up a cmd and type  (which in your case should change your working directory to ) then type python. If you get an error saying the command python cannot be found then you have to add python to your path. Other wise you should be able to run  and then execute the script 
create an environment variable, say, PyPath = C:\Users\user_name\restofdirectorythen your line would be:or you just cd to C:\Users\user_name\restofdirectory, and run
Add Python to your path:then you can call python like this:
If you have the Python Launcher for Windows (comes with Python 3.3+) installed, then it gets even easier. You just need to put shebang in your code:The first time you run your code, Windows will pop up a dialog and ask you what program to use to run the script. The Python Launcher should be listed. Just choose that and away you go.  Here's a fun little script from the page I linked earlier:Once my Windows 7 box had the launcher installed and I told it what program to run, I could just call my script from cmd.exe like this:Note: If you have a version of Python older than 3.3, you can download the installer here


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html
