Natural Text
(I'm new to Python!)Trying to figure out this homework question:The function will takes a​s input​ two dictionaries, each mapping strings to integers. The function will r​eturn​ a dictionary that maps strings from the two input dictionaries to the sum of the integers in the two input dictionaries.my idea was this:however, that brings back .In the professor's example:the output is:My issue really is that I don't understand how to add up the values from each dictionaries. I know that the '+' is not supported with dictionaries. I'm not looking for anyone to do my homework for me, but any suggestions would be very much appreciated!
From the documentation:Update the dictionary with the key/value pairs from , overwriting existing keys. Return .You don't want to replace key/value pairs, you want to add the values for similar keys. Go through each dictionary and add each value to the relevant key: will retrieve the value of an existing  or produce  if  is not yet present.
First of all,  updates  in place, and returns .Secondly,  wouldn't help you to sum the keys; it would just produce a dictionary with the resulting dictionary having all the key, value pairs from :It'd be easiest to use  to achieve the desired result. As a plus, it does support addition with :This produces the intended result:
The following is not meant to be the most elegant solution, but to get a feeling on how to deal with dicts.Output:
You define a function that takes two arguments,  and .Then you assign an empty dictionary to both those variables, overwriting the dictionaries you passed to the function.Then you update  with the values from , and assign the result to .  always returns  though.And finally, you don’t return anything from the function, so it does not give you any results.In order to combine those dictionaries, you actually need to use the values that were passed to it. Since  mutates the dictionary it is called on, this would change one of those passed dictionaries, which we generally do not want to do. So instead, we use an empty dictionary, and then copy the values from both dictionaries into it:If you want the values to sum up automatically, then use a Counter instead of a normal dictionary:
I suspect your professor wants to achieve this using more simple methods. But you can achieve this very easily using .Your professor probably wants something like this:
You can try this:
I personally like using a dictionary's  method for this kind of merge:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.Counter
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#dict.update
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.Counter
