Natural Text
I have windows 8 running on my computer and I think I downloaded python 2 and 3 simultaneously or I think my computer has built in python 2 and I downloaded python 3. And now when I ran my code in IDLE, the code works fine but when I save my program and double click the save file, it will run but it doesn't worked like it used to work in IDLE. Can someone explain the possible problem I'm currently facing?I just want my program to run perfectly in both IDLE and when I double click the saved file.I tried what Anand S. Kumar suggested but I'm not sure I know what I'm doing.So here is what I inputted in the CMD adminstrator but the output is still the same as the first picture above.so here is the codethe games module:the cards module:and then the main code:Please don't mind the comments if you don't understand. That is my first language by the way.
I have never tried to run a Python program by double clicking the save file, but I can point you in the direction that tells you how to run a program in the Command Line or Python Shell. First off, Windows does not come with Python 2 or 3. You can check which version you have by simply going to wherever the Python files were installed. By default, they will be in the C drive. Once you have your enviornment path set up, you can also check which version of Python you have via the Python shell.Here is where you can find the steps to set up your environment to run Python from the Command Line. This also will help you set up your enviornment. Essentially what you are doing is telling Windows where to find the Python libraries when you type 'python' into the Command Line. Once you have your environment set up, you can run your files in the Command Line or in the Python Shell. Look at Escualo's answer for how to do this.
Most probably, the default program associated with .py files is the Python 2.x's executable . That could be the reason it is not running correctly, when you double-click the python file.Because when you double click a file (or run it in command prompt without giving an executable ) , windows picks up the default program that is associated with .py files and runs the file using that executable.In your case, even though you installed Python 3, this may still be pointing to Python 2.From python installation doc, to change the default executable for Python files , use -You can also make all .py scripts execute with pythonw.exe, setting  this through the usual facilities, for example (might require  administrative rights):Launch a command prompt.Associate the correct file group with .py scripts:Redirect all Python files to the new executable:Use the above to redirect .py files to Python 3.
You could try to to change the assosiation to:or set the "C:\Windows" part to where-ever Python3.exe is.The Python installer (for Python3 at least) seems to specify that the filename should be on the wide-character form; Hence the %L modifier.BTW. You can use ftype in your cmd-shell too (instead of poking around   in Explorer). Untested, so beware:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html#configuring-python
https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html#executing-scripts-without-the-python-launcher
