Natural Text
The below script works fine, until I added in "def test", I am trying to get rid of all global variables my programming in general and as I'm not a great programmer, I hope there is a way to do this.  I want to pass "foo" from function "test" back to Function "work" but this does not work as its not a global variable.  Any ideas?EDIT:Thank you, this works...  I appreciate all the feedback as I am a novice, keep in mind this was just a test script I put together to understand passing parameters to different functions.  Before this I was using globals and I'm trying to get rid of them.Thank you, any advice is helpful. 
Add the following to the end of your  function:then you can print the variable in  like this
 is only defined in the "scope" of the function , since that is where you created it. The function  has no knowledge of the variable , as it is undefined outside of the function . So,  has to return the variable  to the place that called , which is the line  in . So, yes, add  to the end of . Edit:When you say , that is basically saying . You've called a function, but you're not doing anything with the result, you're not assigning it. You have to say . This means, from the perspective of : "call the function  and have it do its thing. I don't care what's going on inside of , but I am expecting to it to spit something out at me when it is done. I will assign that something to a variable in my scope so I can use it later".It is just like saying .  is a function that does something inside of it, you don't really care what, you just know that it should return a sensible value that you will assign to  to use later. Edit2: Also, as it stands,  is going to return a  for , since you use the  operator rather than the assignment operator . 
Your  function should be written likeIn a function that calls , assign the resultNote that your code has some unrelated problems, e.g., what should happen if  is neither 3 nor 5?


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/
