Natural Text
I'm stuck with my code for a problem where you get the user to enter a series of numbers/letters and the program returns all viable postal codes using the parameters provided. Here is the question in detail: Write a program that reads in numbers from the user. Your program  should be capable of tracking/calculating the minimum, maximum, total  sum, and average of the numbers entered. When the user enters "q",  "Q", or "quit", the program should display the minimum, maximum, total  sum, and average of the numbers entered before ending. You can assume  that the user will always enter either a number or one of the strings  “q”, “Q”, or “quit”. You can also assume the user will always enter at  least one number (i.e., they will not immediately choose to quit upon  starting the program).Save your Python program in a file called a2q3.py and add it to your  submission zip file. Problem 4 (Postal Sorting Codes)The forward sortation area code is the first three characters of a  Canadian postal code (e.g., the "K1S" in postal code "K1S 5B6") and it  has the format:  First Character: a letter between A and Z  Middle Character: a number between 0 and 9 including zero and including 9    -  - Last Character: a letter between A and Z  You will create a program to generate a subset of the possible  sortation area codes. Instead of using the entire range, you must  write a program using nested loops that generates all the possible  codes that fit constraints specified by the user. Your program should  request the following information from the user:  The starting letter of the first character  The ending letter of the first character  The starting digit of the middle character  The ending digit of the middle character  The starting letter of the last character  The ending letter of the last character  Your program should then print out all possible combinations that fit  these constraints. Each of the ranges should include both the starting  and ending value, as well as all values in between. You can assume  that the user will only enter valid input (i.e., upper case characters  for the letters and 0-9 for the digits).   You cannot use Python’s  lists, dictionary or set functionality to iterate over the letters.  Instead, you should use the ord() function to find the integer values  of the specified letters (i.e., the ASCII values) and the chr()  function to translate from integers back to letters (for more  information on these functions, visit  https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html). After printing out  each of the possible codes, your program should print out the total  number of codes before ending.Here is my code:The error I keep getting when I run the code and enter all the letters/digits is:  Thanks, it's fixed and working! I forgot to add a counter for the postal codes. Should I just add a counter and a print(counter) function at the end, or can someone recommend a better way to do that?
This:Should be:A comma was misplaced there.With the counter added:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html
