Natural Text
My code is data_kp is reading the tables namethe tables' names are like this (string, ex: a000010)I collect table names from here.Then, execute and get the result.The actual output of my code is .. My expectation is (not 3 columns.. there are 2000 tables)I thought my code is near the answer... but it's not working.. My work is almost done, but I couldn't finish this part. I had googled for almost 10 hours.. I don't know how.. please help I think something is wrong with these part
The  method allows you to write a row in your output  file. This means that once you have called the  method, the line is wrote and you can't come back to it. When you write the code:You are saying: "For each result, write a line containing  then write a  line containing ."This way, everything will be wrote verticaly with alternation between  and . What is surprising is that it is not what we get in your actual output. I think that you've changed something. Something like that:But this has not entirely solved your issue, obviously: The names of the tables are not correctly displayed (one character on each column) and they are not side-by-side. So you have 2 problems here:1. Get the table name in one cell and not splittedFirst, let's take a look at the documentation about the :A row must be an iterable of strings or numbers for Writer objects But your  is a , not an "iterable of ". This can't work! But you don't get any error either, why? This is because a , in python, may be itself considered as an iterable of . Try by yourself:And now, you have probably understood what to do in order to make the things work:You have now your table name displayed in only 1 cell! But we still have an other problem...2. Get the table names displayed side by sideHere, it is a problem in the logic of your code. You are browsing your table names, writing lines containing them and expect them to be written side-by-side and get columns of dates! Your code need a little bit of rethinking because  is not made for writing columns but lines. We'll then use the  function of the  module. One can ask why don't I use the  built-in function of Python: this is because the columns are not said to be of equal size and the  function will stop once it reached the end of the shortest list!Note:The code provided here has not been tested and may contain bugs. Nevertheless, you should be able (by using the documentation I provided) to fix it in order to make it works! Good luck :)


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html#csv.csvwriter.writerow
https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html#writer-objects
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html
