Natural Text
I'm supposed to upload a database for an assignment, but I'm having a problem. These are the instructions:This application will read the mailbox data () count up the  number email messages per organization (i.e. domain name of the email  address) using a database with the following schema to maintain the  counts. Counts (, ) When you have run the  program on  upload the resulting database file above for  grading. If you run the program multiple times in testing or with  different files, make sure to empty out the data before each run.The data file for this application is the same as in previous  assignments: http://www.pythonlearn.com/code/mbox.txt. Because the sample code is using an  statement and committing  the results to the database as each record is read in the loop, it  might take as long as a few minutes to process all the data. The  commit insists on completely writing all the data to disk every time  it is called.The error message that it keeps sending me is:I saved them both in the same folder.Can anybody help with this?The code that I entered is here
Your code is having problem to find the file . It has nothing to dowith anything in the database as you did not run so far yet.Good practice (at least during development) is to make sure, the things youhope are true are really true. For this purpose I would use following codewhich makes sure, the file really exists.If you happen to run the code in situation, the file does not exist, it will throw an telling you what went wrong.This exception is very practical as it will tell you quickly what assumption does not holds true andyou know, what to fix.
Your code is looking for a file called  and not finding it. My guess is that  is looking for  in the current directory, but the code is being run from a different directory.Something like this might help resolve your issue:Another approach is using command line arguments. Perhaps there are other files like  that you want to work with. In these cases, you could accept the path to  as a command line option:Or get fancier and use  for the  argument to .


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html#filetype-objects
