Natural Text
Getting Python right on Mac seems a constant challenge.  I'm working with a Homebrew implementation, and now have difficulty running Jupyter except with sudo:Once running, Jupyter fails to import pandas (installed via ):.. even though pandas is available ( works fine).  Guessing its path isn't available to root.I'm wondering if Jupyter is particularly problematic or if this is just my setup..?Grateful for assistance as this is becoming very tiresome.  Any guidance on wiping python and reinstalling 'properly' from scratch would be handy.Edit:
What python is in the shebang () line on  and ?  You may have installed  with a  that was using .  Which means it's not there in the libraries installed for Homebrew's .  You should be able to resolve this with something like this:But in general I second @Ray's suggestion of using  to manage a personal set of Python installations that you can switch between, independently of what's on the system.  (I likewise use  for Ruby and  for Perl.)
Stop using python via native install on OSX or via homebrew right now!!!First learn to use  to control your version of python being used.  Pyenv allows you to safely switch between any version of python you want at any time without messing up the natively installed python (which may be needed by the system): https://amaral.northwestern.edu/resources/guides/pyenv-tutorial Second learn how to use virtual environments () to sandbox your projects.  Virtual environments will allow you to have different sets of libraries installed by pip and such available as needed: https://robinwinslow.uk/2013/12/26/python-3-4-virtual-environment/ With these two technologies in your toolbox you will never have the issue you are experiencing again. Please note  and  are two seperate technologies used to enable similar goals (to control/sandbox environments) with unfortunately VERY similar names.   One thing to note is you'll see older references to  if you google around a bit.  This is the same thing as .Someone put together a good overview of using these with Jupyter: http://www.alfredo.motta.name/create-isolated-jupyter-ipython-kernels-with-pyenv-and-virtualenv/.The other option is to do everything in virtual machines (with say virtualbox) or better still Docker containers, but this a whole other ball of fun best left to after you master virtual environments (you'll want them when you build your docker images anyhow).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html
