Natural Text
How can I get dimensions of image without actually downloading it? Is it even possible?I have a list of urls of images and I want to assign width and size to it.I know there is a way of doing it locally (How to check dimensions of all images in a directory using python?), but I don't want to download all the images.Edit:Following ed. suggestions, I edited the code. I came up with this code. Not sure weather it downloads whole file or just a part (as I wanted).
This is based on ed's answer mixed with other things I found on the web.  I ran into the same issue as grotos with .read(24).  Download getimageinfo.py from here and download ReSeekFile.py from here.Modify getimageinfo as such...
I found the solution on this site to work well:
If you're willing to download the first 24 bytes of each file, then this function (mentioned in johnteslade's answer to the question you mention) will work out the dimensions.That's probably the least downloading necessary to do the job you want.Edit (1):In the case of jpeg files it seems to need more bytes. You could edit the function so that instead of reading a StringIO.StringIO(data) it instead reads the file handle from urlopen. Then it will read exactly as much of the image as it needs to find out the width and height.
Since getimageinfo.py mentioned above doesn't work in Python3. Pillow is used instead of it.Pillow can be found in pypi, or installed by using pip: .
I like this solution I found, which downloads chunks of the image until it can be recognized as an image file by PIL and then stops downloading. This ensures that enough of the image header gets downloaded to read the dimensions, but no more. (I found this here and here; I've adapted it for Python 3+.)
It's not possible to do it directly, but there's a workaround for that. If the files are present on the server, then implement the API endpoint that takes image name as an argument and returns the size.But if the files are on the different server, you've got no other way but to download the files.
Unfortunately I can't comment, so this is as an answer:Use a get query with the headerAnd then simply usehttp://code.google.com/p/bfg-pages/source/browse/trunk/pages/getimageinfo.pyIf you use python's "requests", it's simplyThis fixes ed.'s answer and doesn't have any other dependencies (like ReSeekFile.py).
My fixed "getimageInfo.py", work with Python 3.4+, try it, just great!Source code: http://code.google.com/p/bfg-pages/source/browse/trunk/pages/getimageinfo.py


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#reading-and-writing-files
