Natural Text
I know that the parameters can be any object but for the documentation it is quite important to specify what you would expect.First is how to specify a parameter types like these below? (or use  or ?)function()object instance of class Second, how to specify params that can be of multiple types like a function that can handle a single parameter than can be  or ?Please use the below example to demonstrate the syntax needed for documenting this with your proposed solution. Mind that it is desired to be able to hyperlink reference to the "Image" class from inside the documentation. Note, you are welcome to suggest the usage of any documentation tool (sphinx, oxygen, ...) as long it is able to deal with the requirements. Update:It seams that there is some kind of support for documenting parameter types in doxygen in. general. The code below works but adds an annoying $ to the param name (because it was initially made for php).
There is a better way. We useThat's it. In the PyCharm IDE this helps a lot. It works like a charm ;-)
You need to add an exclamation mark at the start of the Python docstring for Doxygen to parse it correctly.
If using Python 3, you can use the function annotations described in PEP 3107.See also function definitions.
Doxygen is great for C++, but if you are working with mostly python code you should give sphinx a try. If you choose sphinx then all you need to do is follow pep8. 
Yup, @docu is right - this is the (IMHO best) way to combine both documentation schemes more or less seamlessly.  If, on the other hand, you also want to do something like putting text on the doxygen-generated index page, you would addsomewhere at the beginning of your Python code.  In other words, where doxygen does not expect Python comments, use  to alert it that there are tags for it.  Where it expects Python comments (e.g. at the beginning of functions or classes), use .
Figured I'd post this little tidbit here since IDEA showed me this was possible, and I was never told nor read about this.When you type , IDLE's doc-tip appears with  Which was something I thought only Visual Studio did.It's not exactly doxygen material, but it's good for documenting parameter-types for those using your code.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html
