Natural Text
I'm trying to create an lmdb file that contains all of my database images (in order to train CNN).This is my 'test code', that I took from here:As you can see I specified random binary labels (0 or 1, for even or odd, respectively). before I create much larger lmdb file I wanna make sure that I'm doing it the right way.After creating this file I wanted to 'look into the file' and check if it's OK, but I couldn't. the file didn't  open properly using python, Access 2016, and .mdb reader (linux ubunto software). my problems are:I don't understand what this code is doing. what is ? what is ? what does the last line do?After I run the code, I got 2 files: 'data.mdb' and 'key.mdb'. what are those two? maybe those 2 files are the reason why I can't open the database?Thanks a lot, really appreciate your help!
str_id is the internal name of the data set (e.g. one JPG image) used inside the LMDB.  It's derived from the path and sequence number i.tobytes ... here, let me search that for you.  This overall process, through the end of the loop, converts the data set (datum) to the LMDB format, and then copies that binary representation straight to the file.  tobytes and SerializeToString are the critical methods that transfer the bit pattern as-is.data.mdb is the relatively huge data file, containing all of these bit sequences in a readily recoverable form.  In other words, it's not blocking your DB access, because it is the data base.lock.mdb is the record-level lock file: each datum gets appropriately locked (fully or read-only) during any read or write.That should explain the open questions.  lock will not block opening the data base; it operates only during access operations.  Check your file permissions.  Check your user identity as well: did the LMDB creation run as root, perhaps, and not give you read permissions?  Have you tried opening it read-only with a simple-minded editor, such as vi or wordpad?I hope this gets you moving toward a solution.
You can use the mdb_dump tool to inspect the contents of the database.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/array.html?highlight=tobytes#array.array.tobytes
