Natural Text
After running my program that generates passwords multiple times I get an IndexError: list Index out of range. I am not sure what is causing the problem
 can generate the end value as well; you'd need to use  to generate random numbers in the range that includes the start value and excludes the end.
Antti Haapala's answers your question but I see a few things that could be improved in your code. The idea is to make your code clearer.First of all here's my version of your code:The modifications I made of you code:Since  is never modified, you don't need to recreate it each time you call . I have put it in the global scope outside of every functionsSince you can access a character inside a string the same way you access an element in a list you don't need to create a list with the content of  or .You don't gain more understanding defining a variable with the same content of Instead of choosing a random number that you use to choose a character in , you can directly choose a random character with It looks like you have a requirement that the first character of the password has to be an upper case letter. In your code you check this inside your while-loop for each new character but that first character won't change once you set it. So I dragged it outside of this loop.Since your first character is going to chosen inside , I used  for it.To build the rest of the password, I used a generator expression to choose a random character from  and the  string method. Since I have already chosen the first character I only need  random characters.You don't need to define  if all you do is call it later.Even if you define  it's not a good idea to call it recursively because for every new password requested (and every time an invalid input is entered by the user), your code has to create a new small scope environment for this function call and, more importantly, it has to keep of all previous small scope environment. You risk exhausting memory eventually. I have used instead a while-loop. will give a boolean value I have used to change  which controls whether we continue to ask the user if it wants a new passwordYou don't need to call  unless you want to return an exit code to the environment.If you have more questions, don't hesitate to ask. And continue experimenting.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.join
