Natural Text
I'm trying to create a program with python that calculate the cost for shipping. However, I can't run the program to where it works properly. What ever my total is the same amount comes out as $6 for US and $8 for Canada. I can't seem to get pass that.
you should get integer from raw_input, not string. use int().comparison values like 50, 100, 150, ... also should be integer.below is fixed code.
You can't compare Strings numerically.  Instead convert to an int first and then compare.For example:Variables to avoid duplication would help too.
When you compare strings it does so lexicographically, like in a phone book. For example:  "a" < "b": True"bill" < "bob": True"100" < "3": TrueIf you want to compare numbers in the order that we count them you need to use the int type.total = int(raw_input('What is the total amount for your online shopping?'))Then change all of the string literals in your code like "50" to integer literals like 50.
You are comparing strings numerically. That's impossible, like comparing apple with orange, which one is bigger? The computer won't understand that, it needs to compare the size.To do that, we need to convert it to an integer. Use the int() function. Here:Hope this helps!
This:produces a string. Comparison between string and numbers are not very well defined. You need to convert total to a number first. Example:(this ignores input error handling such as when the user's input is not a number)Note that the behavior changes in Python 2.x and Python 3.x. In Python 2.x:Objects of different types, except different numeric types and different string types, never compare equal; such objects are ordered consistently but arbitrarily (so that sorting a heterogeneous array yields a consistent result)....CPython implementation detail: Objects of different types except numbers are ordered by their type names; objects of the same types that don’t support proper comparison are ordered by their address.while in Python 3.x:Objects of different types, except different numeric types, never compare equal.
When using raw_input your user input comes in as a string and you cannot calculate numbers in the format of strings. So you need to change your string input to an integer in order to make the comparisons.You can do like this:
It's like adding apples & houses to get the total which is impossible. It needs to be the same type, in this case integer type, to get the total. Use the int() to convert the string into an integer.   could also be (but less preferable): 
I am just a fresher here and python programming. I was trying to solve your problem. Hope, this one could help you.


Answer URL
