Natural Text
I read through the zipfile modules docs, but couldn't understand how to unzip a file, only how to zip a file. How do I unzip all the contents of a zip file into the same directory?
That's pretty much it!
If you are using Python 3.2 or later:You dont need to use the close or try/catch with this as it uses thecontext manager construction.
Use the extractall method, if you're using Python 2.6+
This is a recursive solution for both ZIP and RAR  :Just create a file with the python code given below.Run the code from cmd like python filename.pyIt will ask you to provide the absolute path of the ZIP or RAR file.Get all the Files extracted in a folder with the same name as the zip file has.This is the same as Winrar functionality, "Extract Here".One extra facility is given ie. recursive extractions. if your file say "a.zip" contains other .zip files like "b.zip", "c.zip" etc. then those files will also be extracted in a nested manner.for RAR support, you need to install unrar and rarfile python packages.You are not done yet now you have to also manually install the unrar for windows and Linux.For Linux :For Windows :click here to download the unrar .exe fileInstall it.Now get the unrar.exe file installed from program files.Normally Location is :Add this path in your windows path variables. because this path will be the unrar tool path which will be used at the time of extracting RAR file.If Everything is set up you are ready to deploy.----------------------------------------------Do not Panic it is a long script divided in mainly four-part. Part 1 Check that you have installled the the path variable correctly .This section is not required if you do not want to work with RAR file. Part 2 This function extract a ZIP file .Takes two argument loc and outloc .loc = "File name with absolute path".outloc = "File where it will be extracted". Part 3 This function extract a RAR file .Almost same as zip. Part 4 The main function ask user for the absolute path.You can change it to a predefined path by setting location value.and comment out the input function. Problems that still present .This solution is not able to extract all type of  RAR files.Though it passes the checking rarfile.is_rarfile("filename")I checked with the RAR created by WinRAR it provides a warning and does not extract the files.[Please comment if you can help regarding this warning and isuue]But It can easily extract RAR4 Type.
This does not contain validation for the file if its not zip. If the folder contains non .zip file it will fail.  
You can also import only ZipFile:Works in Python 2 and Python 3.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/tempfile.html
