Natural Text
I'm working on mass-converting a number of HTML files to XML using BeautifulSoup in Python.A sample HTML file looks something like this:I figured out how to find the doctype and replace it with the tag , but the commenting is giving me a lot of frustration. I want to replace the HTML comments with . In this example HTML, I was able to replace the first two HTML comments, but anything inside the  tag and the last comment after the closing html tag I was not. Here is my code:This is my first time using BeautifulSoup. How do I use BeautifulSoup to find and replace all HTML comments with the  tag?Could I convert it to a byte stream, via , serializing it, applying regex, and then deseralize it back to a  object? Would this work or just cause more problems?I tried using pickle on the child tag object but deserialization fails with . Then I tried pickling just the text of the tag, via , but deserialization failed due to . Basically,  is read-only, which explains why the regex doesn't work. So, I have no idea how to modify the text.
You have a couple of problems:You can't modify . it's a read-only property that just calls  behind the scenes, and its result is a brand new string unconnected to your document. doesn't modify anything in-place. Your linewould have had to be ... but that wouldn't work anyway, because of point 1.Trying to modify the document by replacing chunks of text in it with a regex is the wrong way to use BeautifulSoup. Instead, you need to find nodes and replace them with other nodes.Here's a solution that works:This code starts by iterating over the result of a call to , taking advantage of the fact that we can pass a function as the  argument. In BeautifulSoup,  is a subclass of , so we search for it as though it were a string, and the  is just a shorthand for e.g.Then, we create a new  with the appropriate name, set its content to be the stripped content of the original comment, and replace the comment with the tag we just created.Here's the result:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.sub
