Natural Text
"The class should initialize with a name and a birthday, but the birthday should be None.""There should be two methods, name and birthday""setBirthday sets their Birthday to a date" these are the instructions I was given, this is a small piece in the larger picture. I'm trying to set the day, the month and year to be entered in by the user...this will be used later for other calculations..Code:Can you point me in the right direction? This class stuff really confuses me...I need to have the user be able to input the day, month and year to be saved for later use. error is below in comments. I did remove the returns in my code.
Your class defines setBirthday as a method, but as soon as you instantiate the class that method disappears and setBirthday just points to None. Note that birthday and setBirthday are two unique names, and that class is already using the latter for that method.You have unnecessary parentheses. Try to use only what is necessary for grouping, with the occasional extra pair when required for clarity. var = (input()) is not such an occasion.Python does not require getters and setters. There's no such thing as a private variable, so anyone who wants to modify something can do so to their heart's content. The only thing I'm aware of that can't be redefined is a property (a method tagged with the @property decorator).You are confusing instance variables with global variables, and when to turn each into the other. The setters in that class should simply set instance variables, not return them to the caller (it's like this in Java as well, which is where you actually would use getters and setters.When you call a class's instance methods directly, such as MyClass.methodname(), you need to pass it an instance of the class. This is why standard Python style (PEP-8) calls for class names to be Uppercase or UpperCase and other objects to be lowercase or snake_case. Naming the class person made it look like an instance of something when it's actually a class, making it all too easy to misuse it.Here is what the code should look like:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html
