Natural Text
Having some difficulty using a While function alongside an IF so that if an INPUT hasn't been met, the same question would be repeatedly asked until the outcome was correct.If the user doesn't enter London, Kent or Essex, the input message would be asked until one of these are entered.
Try something like this:Note: I used raw_input() instead of input()
If you can use Python 3 instead of 2, the code runs smoothly as is.They changed input() not to evaluate the input as a python expression in 3.4, to work like the old raw_input().Here's the docs for python 2:input([prompt])Equivalent to eval(raw_input(prompt)).This function does not catch user errors. If the input is not syntactically valid, a SyntaxError will be raised. Other exceptions  may be raised if there is an error during evaluation.If the readline module was loaded, then input() will use it to provide elaborate line editing and history features.Consider using the raw_input() function for general input from users.and python 3:input([prompt])If the prompt argument is present, it is written to standard output without a trailing newline. The function then reads a line from  input, converts it to a string (stripping a trailing newline), and  returns that. When EOF is read, EOFError is raised. Example:If the readline module was loaded, then input() will use it to provide elaborate line editing and history features.
Let me guess. You are getting an error likeThe reason for that is the following: input treats what it reads as Python expression, not as string; so when you enter London it tries to interpret it as the variable name named London. Try to enter string instead: "London" -- and it will work.Example of what input does:It's 5 because input treats what it reads as Python exrpession. In this case it sees the list of three numbers, takes the first one and adds 4 to it.You really should not use input(). Do the following:Edit: as mentioned in the comment, it's even better to use raw_input() instead of sys.stdin.readline(). Completely forgot about it; did not write programs which read from terminal from quite some time :)


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#input
