Natural Text
I'm using python 3.6 on jupyter notebook.I wrote this code to visualize some data.I have many different files where I want to visualizeI want to do a for loop so I don't have to write them all manually. I just put two examples here, but in fact I have hundreds.I tried this :I get this error : Thanks !
Python uses square brackets for indexing rather than curly braces, so you should do image[i] to remove the syntax error.However, in python iterating over a list returns list items rather than indices.Indexing with i won't work, but you can use it directly:Or alternatively using list comprehensionsYou can assign the results of the list comprehension to a new variable if you wish to continue modifying it, so your code would becomeLastly, judging by your code I'd recommend going through some introductory python tutorials.  Something like this that is aimed at matlab users might be a good place to start, or this one for general info.
In your example, you have the two expressions image(i), and image{i}.image(i) This is an issue because strings are not callable (you can't pass them arguments and have them work like functions). This is not a valid operation so an error would be thrown in that case. (The Python parser thinks you're trying to assign to a function call.)image{i} This would be a syntax error. {i} is a set literal, so your expression is like having x 1, which is invalid syntax in Python. If you were looking for indexing, that would be image[i].But then there is the question: is images supposed to be a set or a dict? Because if it is a dictionary, then you are looping over the keys and it should be images[i]. However, if it is a set (which it appears to be what you're using), there are further problems.Sets cannot be indexedYou cannot index a lists or strings by a string.The indexing by strings issue, when you say for string in strings:, string is the string in the container, not an integer index to it.So it seems like you have some more serious structural problems in your code. You should think of what data structures you need, and look into the methods of the builtin containers list, dict, set, tuple, etc.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/
