Natural Text
I am trying to make a for loop that will print all the numbers divisible by 7 from 0 to 100 and also numbers that contain 7, like this example:71417212728and so onI tried to do this:but it prints this:71421 and so onwhat should I do?
As pointed out elsewhere, i == range(7,98,10) doesn't really make sense, as you can't compare an integer to a range object. What you're actually trying to do is a membership test, which in python uses the in keyword: i in range(7,98,10)The next issue you'll find is that you're missing a class of numbers that contain the digit 7. Namely, the 70-79 range (although you'll get 70 and 77 from the other rules). Following your current strategy, your final answer might look like this:This is perfectly valid. You can also approach it mathematically, by noting that the numbers with a 7 ones digit will have a remainder of 7 when divided by 10 (known as the modulo operator, %), and numbers with a 7 tens digit will have a quotient of 7 when divided by 10 (using integer division, //).Finally, there's a neat trick you can do since you're checking both division and mod by the same number; these two results will be given at the same time by the built-in divmod() function. You just need to check if either of them are 7. (Note that this won't work if you expand beyond 2 digit numbers.)(Note: I left the range of the for loop the same as your sample code. This will include 0 in the output, since it is divisible by 7. If you don't want 0, just change the range to range(1, 101).)
well actually when you do:you are comparing an integer with a iterable. So this condition always evaluates to False.What you want to do is to check whether the string representation of you number contains 7. You can do:So globally, you could write the following:
if you don't want to do '7' in number and mathematically do it here is how you canOutputn = 7n = 5
Using list comprehension and using not i % 7 along with the checking str(i) contents for a 7 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#divmod
