Natural Text
I have a .txt file with several paths to files and different extensions. Essentially it's a list of all resources used in a large project. There are often more than one file on a line.What I want to do is get every file name with extension .png from this file and put them into a new text file.This way I can take this .png file list, and compare it with the list I have already created which grabs all the file names and extensions of .png within my resource directory.The code I am using for that part is:My end goal is to compare file name lists and delete all the files from the resource directory that don't have a match.I have been playing with  , , and  with little success.Any help would be greatly appreciated. My programming skills are fair at best and I have been banging my head against this for a while now. Thanks!UPDATE #2To Clarify: The resource list I have figured out is a list of file names taken out of a directory. Example:.The one I am having trouble with is a text file copied from a search done in Visual Studio for '*.png' so I have the file the .png is being referenced in with path, some other C++ garbage, and the filename.png that i am looking to capture. I eventually would like to compare the 2 lists, and see which files don't have a match. The lines look like this:
You should look at the os.path module. It does all the managing of file paths and directories across platforms.To get the file name except the extension look at basenameOn in this case use join to add .png to the end of all your entries in the list to be compared as this will mean the filenames are complete and can be passed to the delete function.
Yea!I am one step closer to my final goal. I now have two lists that I can iterate through comparing the strings to find which ones match.To create a list of .pngs within the directory I am using:To create the second list which pulls all the .pngs out of a mess of text in a text file I am using this:I was not aware of all the different "wildcard" characters for strings, but it seemed like the only to do it. I was having little luck with  because it was giving me all the other paths found. I'm sure with some of the same  magic I could have gotten it.Hopefully my problem can help others. Now off to comparing!


Answer URL
