link:
library/optparse.html#option-attributes

docs:

Option attributes¶
The following option attributes may be passed as keyword arguments to
OptionParser.add_option().  If you pass an option attribute that is not
relevant to a particular option, or fail to pass a required option attribute,
optparse raises OptionError.


Option.action¶
(default: "store")
Determines optparse’s behaviour when this option is seen on the
command line; the available options are documented here.



Option.type¶
(default: "string")
The argument type expected by this option (e.g., "string" or "int");
the available option types are documented here.



Option.dest¶
(default: derived from option strings)
If the option’s action implies writing or modifying a value somewhere, this
tells optparse where to write it: dest names an
attribute of the options object that optparse builds as it parses
the command line.



Option.default¶
The value to use for this option’s destination if the option is not seen on
the command line.  See also OptionParser.set_defaults().



Option.nargs¶
(default: 1)
How many arguments of type type should be consumed when this
option is seen.  If > 1, optparse will store a tuple of values to
dest.



Option.const¶
For actions that store a constant value, the constant value to store.



Option.choices¶
For options of type "choice", the list of strings the user may choose
from.



Option.callback¶
For options with action "callback", the callable to call when this option
is seen.  See section Option Callbacks for detail on the
arguments passed to the callable.



Option.callback_args¶

Option.callback_kwargs¶
Additional positional and keyword arguments to pass to callback after the
four standard callback arguments.



Option.help¶
Help text to print for this option when listing all available options after
the user supplies a help option (such as --help).  If
no help text is supplied, the option will be listed without help text.  To
hide this option, use the special value optparse.SUPPRESS_HELP.



Option.metavar¶
(default: derived from option strings)
Stand-in for the option argument(s) to use when printing help text.  See
section Tutorial for an example.

