link:
library/datetime.html#timezone-objects

docs:

timezone Objects¶
The timezone class is a subclass of tzinfo, each
instance of which represents a timezone defined by a fixed offset from
UTC.  Note that objects of this class cannot be used to represent
timezone information in the locations where different offsets are used
in different days of the year or where historical changes have been
made to civil time.


class datetime.timezone(offset, name=None)¶
The offset argument must be specified as a timedelta
object representing the difference between the local time and UTC.  It must
be strictly between -timedelta(hours=24) and
timedelta(hours=24), otherwise ValueError is raised.
The name argument is optional.  If specified it must be a string that
will be used as the value returned by the datetime.tzname() method.

New in version 3.2.


Changed in version 3.7: The UTC offset is not restricted to a whole number of minutes.




timezone.utcoffset(dt)¶
Return the fixed value specified when the timezone instance is
constructed.  The dt argument is ignored.  The return value is a
timedelta instance equal to the difference between the
local time and UTC.

Changed in version 3.7: The UTC offset is not restricted to a whole number of minutes.




timezone.tzname(dt)¶
Return the fixed value specified when the timezone instance
is constructed.  If name is not provided in the constructor, the
name returned by tzname(dt) is generated from the value of the
offset as follows.  If offset is timedelta(0), the name
is “UTC”, otherwise it is a string ‘UTC±HH:MM’, where ± is the sign
of offset, HH and MM are two digits of offset.hours and
offset.minutes respectively.

Changed in version 3.6: Name generated from offset=timedelta(0) is now plain ‘UTC’, not
‘UTC+00:00’.




timezone.dst(dt)¶
Always returns None.



timezone.fromutc(dt)¶
Return dt + offset.  The dt argument must be an aware
datetime instance, with tzinfo set to self.

Class attributes:


timezone.utc¶
The UTC timezone, timezone(timedelta(0)).

