link:
library/calendar.html#calendar.Calendar

docs:


class calendar.Calendar(firstweekday=0)¶
Creates a Calendar object. firstweekday is an integer specifying the
first day of the week. 0 is Monday (the default), 6 is Sunday.
A Calendar object provides several methods that can be used for
preparing the calendar data for formatting. This class doesn’t do any formatting
itself. This is the job of subclasses.
Calendar instances have the following methods:


iterweekdays()¶
Return an iterator for the week day numbers that will be used for one
week.  The first value from the iterator will be the same as the value of
the firstweekday property.



itermonthdates(year, month)¶
Return an iterator for the month month (1–12) in the year year. This
iterator will return all days (as datetime.date objects) for the
month and all days before the start of the month or after the end of the
month that are required to get a complete week.



itermonthdays(year, month)¶
Return an iterator for the month month in the year year similar to
itermonthdates(), but not restricted by the datetime.date
range. Days returned will simply be day of the month numbers.  For the
days outside of the specified month, the day number is 0.



itermonthdays2(year, month)¶
Return an iterator for the month month in the year year similar to
itermonthdates(), but not restricted by the datetime.date
range. Days returned will be tuples consisting of a day of the month
number and a week day number.



itermonthdays3(year, month)¶
Return an iterator for the month month in the year year similar to
itermonthdates(), but not restricted by the datetime.date
range. Days returned will be tuples consisting of a year, a month and a day
of the month numbers.

New in version 3.7.




itermonthdays4(year, month)¶
Return an iterator for the month month in the year year similar to
itermonthdates(), but not restricted by the datetime.date
range. Days returned will be tuples consisting of a year, a month, a day
of the month, and a day of the week numbers.

New in version 3.7.




monthdatescalendar(year, month)¶
Return a list of the weeks in the month month of the year as full
weeks.  Weeks are lists of seven datetime.date objects.



monthdays2calendar(year, month)¶
Return a list of the weeks in the month month of the year as full
weeks.  Weeks are lists of seven tuples of day numbers and weekday
numbers.



monthdayscalendar(year, month)¶
Return a list of the weeks in the month month of the year as full
weeks.  Weeks are lists of seven day numbers.



yeardatescalendar(year, width=3)¶
Return the data for the specified year ready for formatting. The return
value is a list of month rows. Each month row contains up to width
months (defaulting to 3). Each month contains between 4 and 6 weeks and
each week contains 1–7 days. Days are datetime.date objects.



yeardays2calendar(year, width=3)¶
Return the data for the specified year ready for formatting (similar to
yeardatescalendar()). Entries in the week lists are tuples of day
numbers and weekday numbers. Day numbers outside this month are zero.



yeardayscalendar(year, width=3)¶
Return the data for the specified year ready for formatting (similar to
yeardatescalendar()). Entries in the week lists are day numbers. Day
numbers outside this month are zero.

