link:
library/reprlib.html#repr-objects

docs:

Repr Objects¶
Repr instances provide several attributes which can be used to provide
size limits for the representations of different object types,  and methods
which format specific object types.


Repr.maxlevel¶
Depth limit on the creation of recursive representations.  The default is 6.



Repr.maxdict¶

Repr.maxlist¶

Repr.maxtuple¶

Repr.maxset¶

Repr.maxfrozenset¶

Repr.maxdeque¶

Repr.maxarray¶
Limits on the number of entries represented for the named object type.  The
default is 4 for maxdict, 5 for maxarray, and  6 for
the others.



Repr.maxlong¶
Maximum number of characters in the representation for an integer.  Digits
are dropped from the middle.  The default is 40.



Repr.maxstring¶
Limit on the number of characters in the representation of the string.  Note
that the “normal” representation of the string is used as the character source:
if escape sequences are needed in the representation, these may be mangled when
the representation is shortened.  The default is 30.



Repr.maxother¶
This limit is used to control the size of object types for which no specific
formatting method is available on the Repr object. It is applied in a
similar manner as maxstring.  The default is 20.



Repr.repr(obj)¶
The equivalent to the built-in repr() that uses the formatting imposed by
the instance.



Repr.repr1(obj, level)¶
Recursive implementation used by repr().  This uses the type of obj to
determine which formatting method to call, passing it obj and level.  The
type-specific methods should call repr1() to perform recursive formatting,
with level - 1 for the value of level in the recursive  call.



Repr.repr_TYPE(obj, level)
Formatting methods for specific types are implemented as methods with a name
based on the type name.  In the method name, TYPE is replaced by
'_'.join(type(obj).__name__.split()). Dispatch to these methods is
handled by repr1(). Type-specific methods which need to recursively
format a value should call self.repr1(subobj, level - 1).

