link:
library/tempfile.html#tempfile.mkstemp

docs:


tempfile.mkstemp(suffix=None, prefix=None, dir=None, text=False)¶
Creates a temporary file in the most secure manner possible.  There are
no race conditions in the file’s creation, assuming that the platform
properly implements the os.O_EXCL flag for os.open().  The
file is readable and writable only by the creating user ID.  If the
platform uses permission bits to indicate whether a file is executable,
the file is executable by no one.  The file descriptor is not inherited
by child processes.
Unlike TemporaryFile(), the user of mkstemp() is responsible
for deleting the temporary file when done with it.
If suffix is not None, the file name will end with that suffix,
otherwise there will be no suffix.  mkstemp() does not put a dot
between the file name and the suffix; if you need one, put it at the
beginning of suffix.
If prefix is not None, the file name will begin with that prefix;
otherwise, a default prefix is used.  The default is the return value of
gettempprefix() or gettempprefixb(), as appropriate.
If dir is not None, the file will be created in that directory;
otherwise, a default directory is used.  The default directory is chosen
from a platform-dependent list, but the user of the application can
control the directory location by setting the TMPDIR, TEMP or TMP
environment variables.  There is thus no guarantee that the generated
filename will have any nice properties, such as not requiring quoting
when passed to external commands via os.popen().
If any of suffix, prefix, and dir are not
None, they must be the same type.
If they are bytes, the returned name will be bytes instead of str.
If you want to force a bytes return value with otherwise default behavior,
pass suffix=b''.
If text is specified, it indicates whether to open the file in binary
mode (the default) or text mode.  On some platforms, this makes no
difference.
mkstemp() returns a tuple containing an OS-level handle to an open
file (as would be returned by os.open()) and the absolute pathname
of that file, in that order.

Changed in version 3.5: suffix, prefix, and dir may now be supplied in bytes in order to
obtain a bytes return value.  Prior to this, only str was allowed.
suffix and prefix now accept and default to None to cause
an appropriate default value to be used.

