link:
library/shutil.html#shutil.copytree

docs:


shutil.copytree(src, dst, symlinks=False, ignore=None, copy_function=copy2, ignore_dangling_symlinks=False)¶
Recursively copy an entire directory tree rooted at src, returning the
destination directory.  The destination
directory, named by dst, must not already exist; it will be created as
well as missing parent directories.  Permissions and times of directories
are copied with copystat(), individual files are copied using
shutil.copy2().
If symlinks is true, symbolic links in the source tree are represented as
symbolic links in the new tree and the metadata of the original links will
be copied as far as the platform allows; if false or omitted, the contents
and metadata of the linked files are copied to the new tree.
When symlinks is false, if the file pointed by the symlink doesn’t
exist, an exception will be added in the list of errors raised in
an Error exception at the end of the copy process.
You can set the optional ignore_dangling_symlinks flag to true if you
want to silence this exception. Notice that this option has no effect
on platforms that don’t support os.symlink().
If ignore is given, it must be a callable that will receive as its
arguments the directory being visited by copytree(), and a list of its
contents, as returned by os.listdir().  Since copytree() is
called recursively, the ignore callable will be called once for each
directory that is copied.  The callable must return a sequence of directory
and file names relative to the current directory (i.e. a subset of the items
in its second argument); these names will then be ignored in the copy
process.  ignore_patterns() can be used to create such a callable that
ignores names based on glob-style patterns.
If exception(s) occur, an Error is raised with a list of reasons.
If copy_function is given, it must be a callable that will be used to copy
each file. It will be called with the source path and the destination path
as arguments. By default, shutil.copy2() is used, but any function
that supports the same signature (like shutil.copy()) can be used.

Changed in version 3.3: Copy metadata when symlinks is false.
Now returns dst.


Changed in version 3.2: Added the copy_function argument to be able to provide a custom copy
function.
Added the ignore_dangling_symlinks argument to silent dangling symlinks
errors when symlinks is false.

