link:
library/bz2.html#incremental-de-compression

docs:

Incremental (de)compression¶


class bz2.BZ2Compressor(compresslevel=9)¶
Create a new compressor object. This object may be used to compress data
incrementally. For one-shot compression, use the compress() function
instead.
compresslevel, if given, must be a number between 1 and 9. The
default is 9.


compress(data)¶
Provide data to the compressor object. Returns a chunk of compressed data
if possible, or an empty byte string otherwise.
When you have finished providing data to the compressor, call the
flush() method to finish the compression process.



flush()¶
Finish the compression process. Returns the compressed data left in
internal buffers.
The compressor object may not be used after this method has been called.




class bz2.BZ2Decompressor¶
Create a new decompressor object. This object may be used to decompress data
incrementally. For one-shot compression, use the decompress() function
instead.

Note
This class does not transparently handle inputs containing multiple
compressed streams, unlike decompress() and BZ2File. If
you need to decompress a multi-stream input with BZ2Decompressor,
you must use a new decompressor for each stream.



decompress(data, max_length=-1)¶
Decompress data (a bytes-like object), returning
uncompressed data as bytes. Some of data may be buffered
internally, for use in later calls to decompress(). The
returned data should be concatenated with the output of any
previous calls to decompress().
If max_length is nonnegative, returns at most max_length
bytes of decompressed data. If this limit is reached and further
output can be produced, the needs_input attribute will
be set to False. In this case, the next call to
decompress() may provide data as b'' to obtain
more of the output.
If all of the input data was decompressed and returned (either
because this was less than max_length bytes, or because
max_length was negative), the needs_input attribute
will be set to True.
Attempting to decompress data after the end of stream is reached
raises an EOFError.  Any data found after the end of the
stream is ignored and saved in the unused_data attribute.

Changed in version 3.5: Added the max_length parameter.




eof¶
True if the end-of-stream marker has been reached.

New in version 3.3.




unused_data¶
Data found after the end of the compressed stream.
If this attribute is accessed before the end of the stream has been
reached, its value will be b''.



needs_input¶
False if the decompress() method can provide more
decompressed data before requiring new uncompressed input.

New in version 3.5.



