link:
library/os.html#linux-extended-attributes

docs:

Linux extended attributes¶

New in version 3.3.

These functions are all available on Linux only.


os.getxattr(path, attribute, *, follow_symlinks=True)¶
Return the value of the extended filesystem attribute attribute for
path. attribute can be bytes or str (directly or indirectly through the
PathLike interface). If it is str, it is encoded with the filesystem
encoding.
This function can support specifying a file descriptor and
not following symlinks.

Changed in version 3.6: Accepts a path-like object for path and attribute.




os.listxattr(path=None, *, follow_symlinks=True)¶
Return a list of the extended filesystem attributes on path.  The
attributes in the list are represented as strings decoded with the filesystem
encoding.  If path is None, listxattr() will examine the current
directory.
This function can support specifying a file descriptor and
not following symlinks.

Changed in version 3.6: Accepts a path-like object.




os.removexattr(path, attribute, *, follow_symlinks=True)¶
Removes the extended filesystem attribute attribute from path.
attribute should be bytes or str (directly or indirectly through the
PathLike interface). If it is a string, it is encoded
with the filesystem encoding.
This function can support specifying a file descriptor and
not following symlinks.

Changed in version 3.6: Accepts a path-like object for path and attribute.




os.setxattr(path, attribute, value, flags=0, *, follow_symlinks=True)¶
Set the extended filesystem attribute attribute on path to value.
attribute must be a bytes or str with no embedded NULs (directly or
indirectly through the PathLike interface). If it is a str,
it is encoded with the filesystem encoding.  flags may be
XATTR_REPLACE or XATTR_CREATE. If XATTR_REPLACE is
given and the attribute does not exist, EEXISTS will be raised.
If XATTR_CREATE is given and the attribute already exists, the
attribute will not be created and ENODATA will be raised.
This function can support specifying a file descriptor and
not following symlinks.

Note
A bug in Linux kernel versions less than 2.6.39 caused the flags argument
to be ignored on some filesystems.


Changed in version 3.6: Accepts a path-like object for path and attribute.




os.XATTR_SIZE_MAX¶
The maximum size the value of an extended attribute can be. Currently, this
is 64 KiB on Linux.



os.XATTR_CREATE¶
This is a possible value for the flags argument in setxattr(). It
indicates the operation must create an attribute.



os.XATTR_REPLACE¶
This is a possible value for the flags argument in setxattr(). It
indicates the operation must replace an existing attribute.

