link:
library/time.html#timezone-constants

docs:

Timezone Constants¶


time.altzone¶
The offset of the local DST timezone, in seconds west of UTC, if one is defined.
This is negative if the local DST timezone is east of UTC (as in Western Europe,
including the UK).  Only use this if daylight is nonzero.  See note below.



time.daylight¶
Nonzero if a DST timezone is defined.  See note below.



time.timezone¶
The offset of the local (non-DST) timezone, in seconds west of UTC (negative in
most of Western Europe, positive in the US, zero in the UK).  See note below.



time.tzname¶
A tuple of two strings: the first is the name of the local non-DST timezone, the
second is the name of the local DST timezone.  If no DST timezone is defined,
the second string should not be used.  See note below.


Note
For the above Timezone constants (altzone, daylight, timezone,
and tzname), the value is determined by the timezone rules in effect
at module load time or the last time tzset() is called and may be incorrect
for times in the past.  It is recommended to use the tm_gmtoff and
tm_zone results from localtime() to obtain timezone information.


See also

Module datetime
More object-oriented interface to dates and times.
Module locale
Internationalization services.  The locale setting affects the interpretation
of many format specifiers in strftime() and strptime().
Module calendar
General calendar-related functions.   timegm() is the
inverse of gmtime() from this module.


Footnotes



[1]The use of %Z is now deprecated, but the %z escape that expands to the
preferred  hour/minute offset is not supported by all ANSI C libraries. Also, a
strict reading of the original 1982 RFC 822 standard calls for a two-digit
year (%y rather than %Y), but practice moved to 4-digit years long before the
year 2000.  After that, RFC 822 became obsolete and the 4-digit year has
been first recommended by RFC 1123 and then mandated by RFC 2822.


