link:
library/logging.config.html#object-connections

docs:

Object connections¶
The schema describes a set of logging objects - loggers,
handlers, formatters, filters - which are connected to each other in
an object graph.  Thus, the schema needs to represent connections
between the objects.  For example, say that, once configured, a
particular logger has attached to it a particular handler.  For the
purposes of this discussion, we can say that the logger represents the
source, and the handler the destination, of a connection between the
two.  Of course in the configured objects this is represented by the
logger holding a reference to the handler.  In the configuration dict,
this is done by giving each destination object an id which identifies
it unambiguously, and then using the id in the source object’s
configuration to indicate that a connection exists between the source
and the destination object with that id.
So, for example, consider the following YAML snippet:
formatters:
  brief:
    # configuration for formatter with id 'brief' goes here
  precise:
    # configuration for formatter with id 'precise' goes here
handlers:
  h1: #This is an id
   # configuration of handler with id 'h1' goes here
   formatter: brief
  h2: #This is another id
   # configuration of handler with id 'h2' goes here
   formatter: precise
loggers:
  foo.bar.baz:
    # other configuration for logger 'foo.bar.baz'
    handlers: [h1, h2]


(Note: YAML used here because it’s a little more readable than the
equivalent Python source form for the dictionary.)
The ids for loggers are the logger names which would be used
programmatically to obtain a reference to those loggers, e.g.
foo.bar.baz.  The ids for Formatters and Filters can be any string
value (such as brief, precise above) and they are transient,
in that they are only meaningful for processing the configuration
dictionary and used to determine connections between objects, and are
not persisted anywhere when the configuration call is complete.
The above snippet indicates that logger named foo.bar.baz should
have two handlers attached to it, which are described by the handler
ids h1 and h2. The formatter for h1 is that described by id
brief, and the formatter for h2 is that described by id
precise.
