link:
library/mailbox.html#mailbox-objects

docs:

Mailbox objects¶


class mailbox.Mailbox¶
A mailbox, which may be inspected and modified.
The Mailbox class defines an interface and is not intended to be
instantiated.  Instead, format-specific subclasses should inherit from
Mailbox and your code should instantiate a particular subclass.
The Mailbox interface is dictionary-like, with small keys
corresponding to messages. Keys are issued by the Mailbox instance
with which they will be used and are only meaningful to that Mailbox
instance. A key continues to identify a message even if the corresponding
message is modified, such as by replacing it with another message.
Messages may be added to a Mailbox instance using the set-like
method add() and removed using a del statement or the set-like
methods remove() and discard().
Mailbox interface semantics differ from dictionary semantics in some
noteworthy ways. Each time a message is requested, a new representation
(typically a Message instance) is generated based upon the current
state of the mailbox. Similarly, when a message is added to a
Mailbox instance, the provided message representation’s contents are
copied. In neither case is a reference to the message representation kept by
the Mailbox instance.
The default Mailbox iterator iterates over message representations,
not keys as the default dictionary iterator does. Moreover, modification of a
mailbox during iteration is safe and well-defined. Messages added to the
mailbox after an iterator is created will not be seen by the
iterator. Messages removed from the mailbox before the iterator yields them
will be silently skipped, though using a key from an iterator may result in a
KeyError exception if the corresponding message is subsequently
removed.

Warning
Be very cautious when modifying mailboxes that might be simultaneously
changed by some other process.  The safest mailbox format to use for such
tasks is Maildir; try to avoid using single-file formats such as mbox for
concurrent writing.  If you’re modifying a mailbox, you must lock it by
calling the lock() and unlock() methods before reading any
messages in the file or making any changes by adding or deleting a
message.  Failing to lock the mailbox runs the risk of losing messages or
corrupting the entire mailbox.

Mailbox instances have the following methods:


add(message)¶
Add message to the mailbox and return the key that has been assigned to
it.
Parameter message may be a Message instance, an
email.message.Message instance, a string, a byte string, or a
file-like object (which should be open in binary mode). If message is
an instance of the
appropriate format-specific Message subclass (e.g., if it’s an
mboxMessage instance and this is an mbox instance), its
format-specific information is used. Otherwise, reasonable defaults for
format-specific information are used.

Changed in version 3.2: Support for binary input was added.




remove(key)¶

__delitem__(key)¶

discard(key)¶
Delete the message corresponding to key from the mailbox.
If no such message exists, a KeyError exception is raised if the
method was called as remove() or __delitem__() but no
exception is raised if the method was called as discard(). The
behavior of discard() may be preferred if the underlying mailbox
format supports concurrent modification by other processes.



__setitem__(key, message)¶
Replace the message corresponding to key with message. Raise a
KeyError exception if no message already corresponds to key.
As with add(), parameter message may be a Message
instance, an email.message.Message instance, a string, a byte
string, or a file-like object (which should be open in binary mode). If
message is an
instance of the appropriate format-specific Message subclass
(e.g., if it’s an mboxMessage instance and this is an
mbox instance), its format-specific information is
used. Otherwise, the format-specific information of the message that
currently corresponds to key is left unchanged.



iterkeys()¶

keys()¶
Return an iterator over all keys if called as iterkeys() or return a
list of keys if called as keys().



itervalues()¶

__iter__()¶

values()¶
Return an iterator over representations of all messages if called as
itervalues() or __iter__() or return a list of such
representations if called as values(). The messages are represented
as instances of the appropriate format-specific Message subclass
unless a custom message factory was specified when the Mailbox
instance was initialized.

Note
The behavior of __iter__() is unlike that of dictionaries, which
iterate over keys.




iteritems()¶

items()¶
Return an iterator over (key, message) pairs, where key is a key and
message is a message representation, if called as iteritems() or
return a list of such pairs if called as items(). The messages are
represented as instances of the appropriate format-specific
Message subclass unless a custom message factory was specified
when the Mailbox instance was initialized.



get(key, default=None)¶

__getitem__(key)¶
Return a representation of the message corresponding to key. If no such
message exists, default is returned if the method was called as
get() and a KeyError exception is raised if the method was
called as __getitem__(). The message is represented as an instance
of the appropriate format-specific Message subclass unless a
custom message factory was specified when the Mailbox instance
was initialized.



get_message(key)¶
Return a representation of the message corresponding to key as an
instance of the appropriate format-specific Message subclass, or
raise a KeyError exception if no such message exists.



get_bytes(key)¶
Return a byte representation of the message corresponding to key, or
raise a KeyError exception if no such message exists.

New in version 3.2.




get_string(key)¶
Return a string representation of the message corresponding to key, or
raise a KeyError exception if no such message exists.  The
message is processed through email.message.Message to
convert it to a 7bit clean representation.



get_file(key)¶
Return a file-like representation of the message corresponding to key,
or raise a KeyError exception if no such message exists.  The
file-like object behaves as if open in binary mode.  This file should be
closed once it is no longer needed.

Changed in version 3.2: The file object really is a binary file; previously it was incorrectly
returned in text mode.  Also, the file-like object now supports the
context management protocol: you can use a with statement to
automatically close it.


Note
Unlike other representations of messages, file-like representations are
not necessarily independent of the Mailbox instance that
created them or of the underlying mailbox.  More specific documentation
is provided by each subclass.




__contains__(key)¶
Return True if key corresponds to a message, False otherwise.



__len__()¶
Return a count of messages in the mailbox.



clear()¶
Delete all messages from the mailbox.



pop(key, default=None)¶
Return a representation of the message corresponding to key and delete
the message. If no such message exists, return default. The message is
represented as an instance of the appropriate format-specific
Message subclass unless a custom message factory was specified
when the Mailbox instance was initialized.



popitem()¶
Return an arbitrary (key, message) pair, where key is a key and
message is a message representation, and delete the corresponding
message. If the mailbox is empty, raise a KeyError exception. The
message is represented as an instance of the appropriate format-specific
Message subclass unless a custom message factory was specified
when the Mailbox instance was initialized.



update(arg)¶
Parameter arg should be a key-to-message mapping or an iterable of
(key, message) pairs. Updates the mailbox so that, for each given
key and message, the message corresponding to key is set to
message as if by using __setitem__(). As with __setitem__(),
each key must already correspond to a message in the mailbox or else a
KeyError exception will be raised, so in general it is incorrect
for arg to be a Mailbox instance.

Note
Unlike with dictionaries, keyword arguments are not supported.




flush()¶
Write any pending changes to the filesystem. For some Mailbox
subclasses, changes are always written immediately and flush() does
nothing, but you should still make a habit of calling this method.



lock()¶
Acquire an exclusive advisory lock on the mailbox so that other processes
know not to modify it. An ExternalClashError is raised if the lock
is not available. The particular locking mechanisms used depend upon the
mailbox format.  You should always lock the mailbox before making any
modifications to its contents.



unlock()¶
Release the lock on the mailbox, if any.



close()¶
Flush the mailbox, unlock it if necessary, and close any open files. For
some Mailbox subclasses, this method does nothing.



Maildir¶


class mailbox.Maildir(dirname, factory=None, create=True)¶
A subclass of Mailbox for mailboxes in Maildir format. Parameter
factory is a callable object that accepts a file-like message representation
(which behaves as if opened in binary mode) and returns a custom representation.
If factory is None, MaildirMessage is used as the default message
representation. If create is True, the mailbox is created if it does not
exist.
It is for historical reasons that dirname is named as such rather than path.
Maildir is a directory-based mailbox format invented for the qmail mail
transfer agent and now widely supported by other programs. Messages in a
Maildir mailbox are stored in separate files within a common directory
structure. This design allows Maildir mailboxes to be accessed and modified
by multiple unrelated programs without data corruption, so file locking is
unnecessary.
Maildir mailboxes contain three subdirectories, namely: tmp,
new, and cur. Messages are created momentarily in the
tmp subdirectory and then moved to the new subdirectory to
finalize delivery. A mail user agent may subsequently move the message to the
cur subdirectory and store information about the state of the message
in a special “info” section appended to its file name.
Folders of the style introduced by the Courier mail transfer agent are also
supported. Any subdirectory of the main mailbox is considered a folder if
'.' is the first character in its name. Folder names are represented by
Maildir without the leading '.'. Each folder is itself a Maildir
mailbox but should not contain other folders. Instead, a logical nesting is
indicated using '.' to delimit levels, e.g., “Archived.2005.07”.

Note
The Maildir specification requires the use of a colon (':') in certain
message file names. However, some operating systems do not permit this
character in file names, If you wish to use a Maildir-like format on such
an operating system, you should specify another character to use
instead. The exclamation point ('!') is a popular choice. For
example:
import mailbox
mailbox.Maildir.colon = '!'


The colon attribute may also be set on a per-instance basis.

Maildir instances have all of the methods of Mailbox in
addition to the following:


list_folders()¶
Return a list of the names of all folders.



get_folder(folder)¶
Return a Maildir instance representing the folder whose name is
folder. A NoSuchMailboxError exception is raised if the folder
does not exist.



add_folder(folder)¶
Create a folder whose name is folder and return a Maildir
instance representing it.



remove_folder(folder)¶
Delete the folder whose name is folder. If the folder contains any
messages, a NotEmptyError exception will be raised and the folder
will not be deleted.



clean()¶
Delete temporary files from the mailbox that have not been accessed in the
last 36 hours. The Maildir specification says that mail-reading programs
should do this occasionally.

Some Mailbox methods implemented by Maildir deserve special
remarks:


add(message)¶

__setitem__(key, message)¶

update(arg)¶

Warning
These methods generate unique file names based upon the current process
ID. When using multiple threads, undetected name clashes may occur and
cause corruption of the mailbox unless threads are coordinated to avoid
using these methods to manipulate the same mailbox simultaneously.




flush()¶
All changes to Maildir mailboxes are immediately applied, so this method
does nothing.



lock()¶

unlock()¶
Maildir mailboxes do not support (or require) locking, so these methods do
nothing.



close()¶
Maildir instances do not keep any open files and the underlying
mailboxes do not support locking, so this method does nothing.



get_file(key)¶
Depending upon the host platform, it may not be possible to modify or
remove the underlying message while the returned file remains open.



See also

maildir man page from qmail
The original specification of the format.
Using maildir format
Notes on Maildir by its inventor. Includes an updated name-creation scheme and
details on “info” semantics.
maildir man page from Courier
Another specification of the format. Describes a common extension for supporting
folders.




mbox¶


class mailbox.mbox(path, factory=None, create=True)¶
A subclass of Mailbox for mailboxes in mbox format. Parameter factory
is a callable object that accepts a file-like message representation (which
behaves as if opened in binary mode) and returns a custom representation. If
factory is None, mboxMessage is used as the default message
representation. If create is True, the mailbox is created if it does not
exist.
The mbox format is the classic format for storing mail on Unix systems. All
messages in an mbox mailbox are stored in a single file with the beginning of
each message indicated by a line whose first five characters are “From “.
Several variations of the mbox format exist to address perceived shortcomings in
the original. In the interest of compatibility, mbox implements the
original format, which is sometimes referred to as mboxo. This means that
the Content-Length header, if present, is ignored and that any
occurrences of “From ” at the beginning of a line in a message body are
transformed to “>From ” when storing the message, although occurrences of “>From
” are not transformed to “From ” when reading the message.
Some Mailbox methods implemented by mbox deserve special
remarks:


get_file(key)¶
Using the file after calling flush() or close() on the
mbox instance may yield unpredictable results or raise an
exception.



lock()¶

unlock()¶
Three locking mechanisms are used—dot locking and, if available, the
flock() and lockf() system calls.



See also

mbox man page from qmail
A specification of the format and its variations.
mbox man page from tin
Another specification of the format, with details on locking.
Configuring Netscape Mail on Unix: Why The Content-Length Format is Bad
An argument for using the original mbox format rather than a variation.
“mbox” is a family of several mutually incompatible mailbox formats
A history of mbox variations.




MH¶


class mailbox.MH(path, factory=None, create=True)¶
A subclass of Mailbox for mailboxes in MH format. Parameter factory
is a callable object that accepts a file-like message representation (which
behaves as if opened in binary mode) and returns a custom representation. If
factory is None, MHMessage is used as the default message
representation. If create is True, the mailbox is created if it does not
exist.
MH is a directory-based mailbox format invented for the MH Message Handling
System, a mail user agent. Each message in an MH mailbox resides in its own
file. An MH mailbox may contain other MH mailboxes (called folders) in
addition to messages. Folders may be nested indefinitely. MH mailboxes also
support sequences, which are named lists used to logically group
messages without moving them to sub-folders. Sequences are defined in a file
called .mh_sequences in each folder.
The MH class manipulates MH mailboxes, but it does not attempt to
emulate all of mh’s behaviors. In particular, it does not modify
and is not affected by the context or .mh_profile files that
are used by mh to store its state and configuration.
MH instances have all of the methods of Mailbox in addition
to the following:


list_folders()¶
Return a list of the names of all folders.



get_folder(folder)¶
Return an MH instance representing the folder whose name is
folder. A NoSuchMailboxError exception is raised if the folder
does not exist.



add_folder(folder)¶
Create a folder whose name is folder and return an MH instance
representing it.



remove_folder(folder)¶
Delete the folder whose name is folder. If the folder contains any
messages, a NotEmptyError exception will be raised and the folder
will not be deleted.



get_sequences()¶
Return a dictionary of sequence names mapped to key lists. If there are no
sequences, the empty dictionary is returned.



set_sequences(sequences)¶
Re-define the sequences that exist in the mailbox based upon sequences,
a dictionary of names mapped to key lists, like returned by
get_sequences().



pack()¶
Rename messages in the mailbox as necessary to eliminate gaps in
numbering.  Entries in the sequences list are updated correspondingly.

Note
Already-issued keys are invalidated by this operation and should not be
subsequently used.


Some Mailbox methods implemented by MH deserve special
remarks:


remove(key)¶

__delitem__(key)¶

discard(key)¶
These methods immediately delete the message. The MH convention of marking
a message for deletion by prepending a comma to its name is not used.



lock()¶

unlock()¶
Three locking mechanisms are used—dot locking and, if available, the
flock() and lockf() system calls. For MH mailboxes, locking
the mailbox means locking the .mh_sequences file and, only for the
duration of any operations that affect them, locking individual message
files.



get_file(key)¶
Depending upon the host platform, it may not be possible to remove the
underlying message while the returned file remains open.



flush()¶
All changes to MH mailboxes are immediately applied, so this method does
nothing.



close()¶
MH instances do not keep any open files, so this method is
equivalent to unlock().



See also

nmh - Message Handling System
Home page of nmh, an updated version of the original mh.
MH & nmh: Email for Users & Programmers
A GPL-licensed book on mh and nmh, with some information
on the mailbox format.




Babyl¶


class mailbox.Babyl(path, factory=None, create=True)¶
A subclass of Mailbox for mailboxes in Babyl format. Parameter
factory is a callable object that accepts a file-like message representation
(which behaves as if opened in binary mode) and returns a custom representation.
If factory is None, BabylMessage is used as the default message
representation. If create is True, the mailbox is created if it does not
exist.
Babyl is a single-file mailbox format used by the Rmail mail user agent
included with Emacs. The beginning of a message is indicated by a line
containing the two characters Control-Underscore ('\037') and Control-L
('\014'). The end of a message is indicated by the start of the next
message or, in the case of the last message, a line containing a
Control-Underscore ('\037') character.
Messages in a Babyl mailbox have two sets of headers, original headers and
so-called visible headers. Visible headers are typically a subset of the
original headers that have been reformatted or abridged to be more
attractive. Each message in a Babyl mailbox also has an accompanying list of
labels, or short strings that record extra information about the
message, and a list of all user-defined labels found in the mailbox is kept
in the Babyl options section.
Babyl instances have all of the methods of Mailbox in
addition to the following:


get_labels()¶
Return a list of the names of all user-defined labels used in the mailbox.

Note
The actual messages are inspected to determine which labels exist in
the mailbox rather than consulting the list of labels in the Babyl
options section, but the Babyl section is updated whenever the mailbox
is modified.


Some Mailbox methods implemented by Babyl deserve special
remarks:


get_file(key)¶
In Babyl mailboxes, the headers of a message are not stored contiguously
with the body of the message. To generate a file-like representation, the
headers and body are copied together into an io.BytesIO instance,
which has an API identical to that of a
file. As a result, the file-like object is truly independent of the
underlying mailbox but does not save memory compared to a string
representation.



lock()¶

unlock()¶
Three locking mechanisms are used—dot locking and, if available, the
flock() and lockf() system calls.



See also

Format of Version 5 Babyl Files
A specification of the Babyl format.
Reading Mail with Rmail
The Rmail manual, with some information on Babyl semantics.




MMDF¶


class mailbox.MMDF(path, factory=None, create=True)¶
A subclass of Mailbox for mailboxes in MMDF format. Parameter factory
is a callable object that accepts a file-like message representation (which
behaves as if opened in binary mode) and returns a custom representation. If
factory is None, MMDFMessage is used as the default message
representation. If create is True, the mailbox is created if it does not
exist.
MMDF is a single-file mailbox format invented for the Multichannel Memorandum
Distribution Facility, a mail transfer agent. Each message is in the same
form as an mbox message but is bracketed before and after by lines containing
four Control-A ('\001') characters. As with the mbox format, the
beginning of each message is indicated by a line whose first five characters
are “From “, but additional occurrences of “From ” are not transformed to
“>From ” when storing messages because the extra message separator lines
prevent mistaking such occurrences for the starts of subsequent messages.
Some Mailbox methods implemented by MMDF deserve special
remarks:


get_file(key)¶
Using the file after calling flush() or close() on the
MMDF instance may yield unpredictable results or raise an
exception.



lock()¶

unlock()¶
Three locking mechanisms are used—dot locking and, if available, the
flock() and lockf() system calls.



See also

mmdf man page from tin
A specification of MMDF format from the documentation of tin, a newsreader.
MMDF
A Wikipedia article describing the Multichannel Memorandum Distribution
Facility.



