link:
library/mailbox.html#mailbox.MH

docs:


class mailbox.MH(path, factory=None, create=True)¶
A subclass of Mailbox for mailboxes in MH format. Parameter factory
is a callable object that accepts a file-like message representation (which
behaves as if opened in binary mode) and returns a custom representation. If
factory is None, MHMessage is used as the default message
representation. If create is True, the mailbox is created if it does not
exist.
MH is a directory-based mailbox format invented for the MH Message Handling
System, a mail user agent. Each message in an MH mailbox resides in its own
file. An MH mailbox may contain other MH mailboxes (called folders) in
addition to messages. Folders may be nested indefinitely. MH mailboxes also
support sequences, which are named lists used to logically group
messages without moving them to sub-folders. Sequences are defined in a file
called .mh_sequences in each folder.
The MH class manipulates MH mailboxes, but it does not attempt to
emulate all of mh’s behaviors. In particular, it does not modify
and is not affected by the context or .mh_profile files that
are used by mh to store its state and configuration.
MH instances have all of the methods of Mailbox in addition
to the following:


list_folders()¶
Return a list of the names of all folders.



get_folder(folder)¶
Return an MH instance representing the folder whose name is
folder. A NoSuchMailboxError exception is raised if the folder
does not exist.



add_folder(folder)¶
Create a folder whose name is folder and return an MH instance
representing it.



remove_folder(folder)¶
Delete the folder whose name is folder. If the folder contains any
messages, a NotEmptyError exception will be raised and the folder
will not be deleted.



get_sequences()¶
Return a dictionary of sequence names mapped to key lists. If there are no
sequences, the empty dictionary is returned.



set_sequences(sequences)¶
Re-define the sequences that exist in the mailbox based upon sequences,
a dictionary of names mapped to key lists, like returned by
get_sequences().



pack()¶
Rename messages in the mailbox as necessary to eliminate gaps in
numbering.  Entries in the sequences list are updated correspondingly.

Note
Already-issued keys are invalidated by this operation and should not be
subsequently used.


Some Mailbox methods implemented by MH deserve special
remarks:


remove(key)¶

__delitem__(key)¶

discard(key)¶
These methods immediately delete the message. The MH convention of marking
a message for deletion by prepending a comma to its name is not used.



lock()¶

unlock()¶
Three locking mechanisms are used—dot locking and, if available, the
flock() and lockf() system calls. For MH mailboxes, locking
the mailbox means locking the .mh_sequences file and, only for the
duration of any operations that affect them, locking individual message
files.



get_file(key)¶
Depending upon the host platform, it may not be possible to remove the
underlying message while the returned file remains open.



flush()¶
All changes to MH mailboxes are immediately applied, so this method does
nothing.



close()¶
MH instances do not keep any open files, so this method is
equivalent to unlock().

