link:
library/mailbox.html#mailbox.BabylMessage

docs:


class mailbox.BabylMessage(message=None)¶
A message with Babyl-specific behaviors. Parameter message has the same
meaning as with the Message constructor.
Certain message labels, called attributes, are defined by convention
to have special meanings. The attributes are as follows:






Label
Explanation



unseen
Not read, but previously detected by MUA

deleted
Marked for subsequent deletion

filed
Copied to another file or mailbox

answered
Replied to

forwarded
Forwarded

edited
Modified by the user

resent
Resent



By default, Rmail displays only visible headers. The BabylMessage
class, though, uses the original headers because they are more
complete. Visible headers may be accessed explicitly if desired.
BabylMessage instances offer the following methods:


get_labels()¶
Return a list of labels on the message.



set_labels(labels)¶
Set the list of labels on the message to labels.



add_label(label)¶
Add label to the list of labels on the message.



remove_label(label)¶
Remove label from the list of labels on the message.



get_visible()¶
Return an Message instance whose headers are the message’s
visible headers and whose body is empty.



set_visible(visible)¶
Set the message’s visible headers to be the same as the headers in
message.  Parameter visible should be a Message instance, an
email.message.Message instance, a string, or a file-like object
(which should be open in text mode).



update_visible()¶
When a BabylMessage instance’s original headers are modified, the
visible headers are not automatically modified to correspond. This method
updates the visible headers as follows: each visible header with a
corresponding original header is set to the value of the original header,
each visible header without a corresponding original header is removed,
and any of Date, From, Reply-To,
To, CC, and Subject that are
present in the original headers but not the visible headers are added to
the visible headers.

