link:
library/mailbox.html#mailbox.MMDFMessage

docs:


class mailbox.MMDFMessage(message=None)¶
A message with MMDF-specific behaviors. Parameter message has the same meaning
as with the Message constructor.
As with message in an mbox mailbox, MMDF messages are stored with the
sender’s address and the delivery date in an initial line beginning with
“From “.  Likewise, flags that indicate the state of the message are
typically stored in Status and X-Status headers.
Conventional flags for MMDF messages are identical to those of mbox message
and are as follows:







Flag
Meaning
Explanation



R
Read
Read

O
Old
Previously detected by MUA

D
Deleted
Marked for subsequent deletion

F
Flagged
Marked as important

A
Answered
Replied to



The “R” and “O” flags are stored in the Status header, and the
“D”, “F”, and “A” flags are stored in the X-Status header. The
flags and headers typically appear in the order mentioned.
MMDFMessage instances offer the following methods, which are
identical to those offered by mboxMessage:


get_from()¶
Return a string representing the “From ” line that marks the start of the
message in an mbox mailbox. The leading “From ” and the trailing newline
are excluded.



set_from(from_, time_=None)¶
Set the “From ” line to from_, which should be specified without a
leading “From ” or trailing newline. For convenience, time_ may be
specified and will be formatted appropriately and appended to from_. If
time_ is specified, it should be a time.struct_time instance, a
tuple suitable for passing to time.strftime(), or True (to use
time.gmtime()).



get_flags()¶
Return a string specifying the flags that are currently set. If the
message complies with the conventional format, the result is the
concatenation in the following order of zero or one occurrence of each of
'R', 'O', 'D', 'F', and 'A'.



set_flags(flags)¶
Set the flags specified by flags and unset all others. Parameter flags
should be the concatenation in any order of zero or more occurrences of
each of 'R', 'O', 'D', 'F', and 'A'.



add_flag(flag)¶
Set the flag(s) specified by flag without changing other flags. To add
more than one flag at a time, flag may be a string of more than one
character.



remove_flag(flag)¶
Unset the flag(s) specified by flag without changing other flags. To
remove more than one flag at a time, flag maybe a string of more than
one character.

