link:
library/xml.dom.html#module-contents

docs:

Module Contents¶
The xml.dom contains the following functions:


xml.dom.registerDOMImplementation(name, factory)¶
Register the factory function with the name name.  The factory function
should return an object which implements the DOMImplementation
interface.  The factory function can return the same object every time, or a new
one for each call, as appropriate for the specific implementation (e.g. if that
implementation supports some customization).



xml.dom.getDOMImplementation(name=None, features=())¶
Return a suitable DOM implementation. The name is either well-known, the
module name of a DOM implementation, or None. If it is not None, imports
the corresponding module and returns a DOMImplementation object if the
import succeeds.  If no name is given, and if the environment variable
PYTHON_DOM is set, this variable is used to find the implementation.
If name is not given, this examines the available implementations to find one
with the required feature set.  If no implementation can be found, raise an
ImportError.  The features list must be a sequence of (feature,
version) pairs which are passed to the hasFeature() method on available
DOMImplementation objects.

Some convenience constants are also provided:


xml.dom.EMPTY_NAMESPACE¶
The value used to indicate that no namespace is associated with a node in the
DOM.  This is typically found as the namespaceURI of a node, or used as
the namespaceURI parameter to a namespaces-specific method.



xml.dom.XML_NAMESPACE¶
The namespace URI associated with the reserved prefix xml, as defined by
Namespaces in XML (section 4).



xml.dom.XMLNS_NAMESPACE¶
The namespace URI for namespace declarations, as defined by Document Object
Model (DOM) Level 2 Core Specification (section 1.1.8).



xml.dom.XHTML_NAMESPACE¶
The URI of the XHTML namespace as defined by XHTML 1.0: The Extensible
HyperText Markup Language (section 3.1.1).

In addition, xml.dom contains a base Node class and the DOM
exception classes.  The Node class provided by this module does not
implement any of the methods or attributes defined by the DOM specification;
concrete DOM implementations must provide those.  The Node class
provided as part of this module does provide the constants used for the
nodeType attribute on concrete Node objects; they are located
within the class rather than at the module level to conform with the DOM
specifications.
