link:
library/exceptions.html#OSError

docs:


exception OSError([arg])¶

exception OSError(errno, strerror[, filename[, winerror[, filename2]]])
This exception is raised when a system function returns a system-related
error, including I/O failures such as “file not found” or “disk full”
(not for illegal argument types or other incidental errors).
The second form of the constructor sets the corresponding attributes,
described below.  The attributes default to None if not
specified.  For backwards compatibility, if three arguments are passed,
the args attribute contains only a 2-tuple
of the first two constructor arguments.
The constructor often actually returns a subclass of OSError, as
described in OS exceptions below.  The particular subclass depends on
the final errno value.  This behaviour only occurs when
constructing OSError directly or via an alias, and is not
inherited when subclassing.


errno¶
A numeric error code from the C variable errno.



winerror¶
Under Windows, this gives you the native
Windows error code.  The errno attribute is then an approximate
translation, in POSIX terms, of that native error code.
Under Windows, if the winerror constructor argument is an integer,
the errno attribute is determined from the Windows error code,
and the errno argument is ignored.  On other platforms, the
winerror argument is ignored, and the winerror attribute
does not exist.



strerror¶
The corresponding error message, as provided by
the operating system.  It is formatted by the C
functions perror() under POSIX, and FormatMessage()
under Windows.



filename¶

filename2¶
For exceptions that involve a file system path (such as open() or
os.unlink()), filename is the file name passed to the function.
For functions that involve two file system paths (such as
os.rename()), filename2 corresponds to the second
file name passed to the function.


Changed in version 3.3: EnvironmentError, IOError, WindowsError,
socket.error, select.error and
mmap.error have been merged into OSError, and the
constructor may return a subclass.


Changed in version 3.4: The filename attribute is now the original file name passed to
the function, instead of the name encoded to or decoded from the
filesystem encoding.  Also, the filename2 constructor argument and
attribute was added.

