link:
library/smtplib.html#smtp-objects

docs:

SMTP Objects¶
An SMTP instance has the following methods:


SMTP.set_debuglevel(level)¶
Set the debug output level.  A value of 1 or True for level results in
debug messages for connection and for all messages sent to and received from
the server.  A value of 2 for level results in these messages being
timestamped.

Changed in version 3.5: Added debuglevel 2.




SMTP.docmd(cmd, args='')¶
Send a command cmd to the server.  The optional argument args is simply
concatenated to the command, separated by a space.
This returns a 2-tuple composed of a numeric response code and the actual
response line (multiline responses are joined into one long line.)
In normal operation it should not be necessary to call this method explicitly.
It is used to implement other methods and may be useful for testing private
extensions.
If the connection to the server is lost while waiting for the reply,
SMTPServerDisconnected will be raised.



SMTP.connect(host='localhost', port=0)¶
Connect to a host on a given port.  The defaults are to connect to the local
host at the standard SMTP port (25). If the hostname ends with a colon (':')
followed by a number, that suffix will be stripped off and the number
interpreted as the port number to use. This method is automatically invoked by
the constructor if a host is specified during instantiation.  Returns a
2-tuple of the response code and message sent by the server in its
connection response.



SMTP.helo(name='')¶
Identify yourself to the SMTP server using HELO.  The hostname argument
defaults to the fully qualified domain name of the local host.
The message returned by the server is stored as the helo_resp attribute
of the object.
In normal operation it should not be necessary to call this method explicitly.
It will be implicitly called by the sendmail() when necessary.



SMTP.ehlo(name='')¶
Identify yourself to an ESMTP server using EHLO.  The hostname argument
defaults to the fully qualified domain name of the local host.  Examine the
response for ESMTP option and store them for use by has_extn().
Also sets several informational attributes: the message returned by
the server is stored as the ehlo_resp attribute, does_esmtp
is set to true or false depending on whether the server supports ESMTP, and
esmtp_features will be a dictionary containing the names of the
SMTP service extensions this server supports, and their parameters (if any).
Unless you wish to use has_extn() before sending mail, it should not be
necessary to call this method explicitly.  It will be implicitly called by
sendmail() when necessary.



SMTP.ehlo_or_helo_if_needed()¶
This method calls ehlo() and/or helo() if there has been no
previous EHLO or HELO command this session.  It tries ESMTP EHLO
first.

SMTPHeloError
The server didn’t reply properly to the HELO greeting.




SMTP.has_extn(name)¶
Return True if name is in the set of SMTP service extensions returned
by the server, False otherwise. Case is ignored.



SMTP.verify(address)¶
Check the validity of an address on this server using SMTP VRFY. Returns a
tuple consisting of code 250 and a full RFC 822 address (including human
name) if the user address is valid. Otherwise returns an SMTP error code of 400
or greater and an error string.

Note
Many sites disable SMTP VRFY in order to foil spammers.




SMTP.login(user, password, *, initial_response_ok=True)¶
Log in on an SMTP server that requires authentication. The arguments are the
username and the password to authenticate with. If there has been no previous
EHLO or HELO command this session, this method tries ESMTP EHLO
first. This method will return normally if the authentication was successful, or
may raise the following exceptions:

SMTPHeloError
The server didn’t reply properly to the HELO greeting.
SMTPAuthenticationError
The server didn’t accept the username/password combination.
SMTPNotSupportedError
The AUTH command is not supported by the server.
SMTPException
No suitable authentication method was found.

Each of the authentication methods supported by smtplib are tried in
turn if they are advertised as supported by the server.  See auth()
for a list of supported authentication methods.  initial_response_ok is
passed through to auth().
Optional keyword argument initial_response_ok specifies whether, for
authentication methods that support it, an “initial response” as specified
in RFC 4954 can be sent along with the AUTH command, rather than
requiring a challenge/response.

Changed in version 3.5: SMTPNotSupportedError may be raised, and the
initial_response_ok parameter was added.




SMTP.auth(mechanism, authobject, *, initial_response_ok=True)¶
Issue an SMTP AUTH command for the specified authentication
mechanism, and handle the challenge response via authobject.
mechanism specifies which authentication mechanism is to
be used as argument to the AUTH command; the valid values are
those listed in the auth element of esmtp_features.
authobject must be a callable object taking an optional single argument:

data = authobject(challenge=None)
If optional keyword argument initial_response_ok is true,
authobject() will be called first with no argument.  It can return the
RFC 4954 “initial response” ASCII str which will be encoded and sent with
the AUTH command as below.  If the authobject() does not support an
initial response (e.g. because it requires a challenge), it should return
None when called with challenge=None.  If initial_response_ok is
false, then authobject() will not be called first with None.
If the initial response check returns None, or if initial_response_ok is
false, authobject() will be called to process the server’s challenge
response; the challenge argument it is passed will be a bytes.  It
should return ASCII str data that will be base64 encoded and sent to the
server.
The SMTP class provides authobjects for the CRAM-MD5, PLAIN,
and LOGIN mechanisms; they are named SMTP.auth_cram_md5,
SMTP.auth_plain, and SMTP.auth_login respectively.  They all require
that the user and password properties of the SMTP instance are
set to appropriate values.
User code does not normally need to call auth directly, but can instead
call the login() method, which will try each of the above mechanisms
in turn, in the order listed.  auth is exposed to facilitate the
implementation of authentication methods not (or not yet) supported
directly by smtplib.

New in version 3.5.




SMTP.starttls(keyfile=None, certfile=None, context=None)¶
Put the SMTP connection in TLS (Transport Layer Security) mode.  All SMTP
commands that follow will be encrypted.  You should then call ehlo()
again.
If keyfile and certfile are provided, they are used to create an
ssl.SSLContext.
Optional context parameter is an ssl.SSLContext object; This is
an alternative to using a keyfile and a certfile and if specified both
keyfile and certfile should be None.
If there has been no previous EHLO or HELO command this session,
this method tries ESMTP EHLO first.

Deprecated since version 3.6: keyfile and certfile are deprecated in favor of context.
Please use ssl.SSLContext.load_cert_chain() instead, or let
ssl.create_default_context() select the system’s trusted CA
certificates for you.


SMTPHeloError
The server didn’t reply properly to the HELO greeting.
SMTPNotSupportedError
The server does not support the STARTTLS extension.
RuntimeError
SSL/TLS support is not available to your Python interpreter.


Changed in version 3.3: context was added.


Changed in version 3.4: The method now supports hostname check with
SSLContext.check_hostname and Server Name Indicator (see
HAS_SNI).


Changed in version 3.5: The error raised for lack of STARTTLS support is now the
SMTPNotSupportedError subclass instead of the base
SMTPException.




SMTP.sendmail(from_addr, to_addrs, msg, mail_options=(), rcpt_options=())¶
Send mail.  The required arguments are an RFC 822 from-address string, a list
of RFC 822 to-address strings (a bare string will be treated as a list with 1
address), and a message string.  The caller may pass a list of ESMTP options
(such as 8bitmime) to be used in MAIL FROM commands as mail_options.
ESMTP options (such as DSN commands) that should be used with all RCPT
commands can be passed as rcpt_options.  (If you need to use different ESMTP
options to different recipients you have to use the low-level methods such as
mail(), rcpt() and data() to send the message.)

Note
The from_addr and to_addrs parameters are used to construct the message
envelope used by the transport agents.  sendmail does not modify the
message headers in any way.

msg may be a string containing characters in the ASCII range, or a byte
string.  A string is encoded to bytes using the ascii codec, and lone \r
and \n characters are converted to \r\n characters.  A byte string is
not modified.
If there has been no previous EHLO or HELO command this session, this
method tries ESMTP EHLO first. If the server does ESMTP, message size and
each of the specified options will be passed to it (if the option is in the
feature set the server advertises).  If EHLO fails, HELO will be tried
and ESMTP options suppressed.
This method will return normally if the mail is accepted for at least one
recipient. Otherwise it will raise an exception.  That is, if this method does
not raise an exception, then someone should get your mail. If this method does
not raise an exception, it returns a dictionary, with one entry for each
recipient that was refused.  Each entry contains a tuple of the SMTP error code
and the accompanying error message sent by the server.
If SMTPUTF8 is included in mail_options, and the server supports it,
from_addr and to_addrs may contain non-ASCII characters.
This method may raise the following exceptions:

SMTPRecipientsRefused
All recipients were refused.  Nobody got the mail.  The recipients
attribute of the exception object is a dictionary with information about the
refused recipients (like the one returned when at least one recipient was
accepted).
SMTPHeloError
The server didn’t reply properly to the HELO greeting.
SMTPSenderRefused
The server didn’t accept the from_addr.
SMTPDataError
The server replied with an unexpected error code (other than a refusal of a
recipient).
SMTPNotSupportedError
SMTPUTF8 was given in the mail_options but is not supported by the
server.

Unless otherwise noted, the connection will be open even after an exception is
raised.

Changed in version 3.2: msg may be a byte string.


Changed in version 3.5: SMTPUTF8 support added, and SMTPNotSupportedError may be
raised if SMTPUTF8 is specified but the server does not support it.




SMTP.send_message(msg, from_addr=None, to_addrs=None, mail_options=(), rcpt_options=())¶
This is a convenience method for calling sendmail() with the message
represented by an email.message.Message object.  The arguments have
the same meaning as for sendmail(), except that msg is a Message
object.
If from_addr is None or to_addrs is None, send_message fills
those arguments with addresses extracted from the headers of msg as
specified in RFC 5322: from_addr is set to the Sender
field if it is present, and otherwise to the From field.
to_addrs combines the values (if any) of the To,
Cc, and Bcc fields from msg.  If exactly one
set of Resent-* headers appear in the message, the regular
headers are ignored and the Resent-* headers are used instead.
If the message contains more than one set of Resent-* headers,
a ValueError is raised, since there is no way to unambiguously detect
the most recent set of Resent- headers.
send_message serializes msg using
BytesGenerator with \r\n as the linesep, and
calls sendmail() to transmit the resulting message.  Regardless of the
values of from_addr and to_addrs, send_message does not transmit any
Bcc or Resent-Bcc headers that may appear
in msg.  If any of the addresses in from_addr and to_addrs contain
non-ASCII characters and the server does not advertise SMTPUTF8 support,
an SMTPNotSupported error is raised.  Otherwise the Message is
serialized with a clone of its policy with the
utf8 attribute set to True, and
SMTPUTF8 and BODY=8BITMIME are added to mail_options.

New in version 3.2.


New in version 3.5: Support for internationalized addresses (SMTPUTF8).




SMTP.quit()¶
Terminate the SMTP session and close the connection.  Return the result of
the SMTP QUIT command.

Low-level methods corresponding to the standard SMTP/ESMTP commands HELP,
RSET, NOOP, MAIL, RCPT, and DATA are also supported.
Normally these do not need to be called directly, so they are not documented
here.  For details, consult the module code.
