link:
library/smtplib.html#smtplib.SMTP.sendmail

docs:


SMTP.sendmail(from_addr, to_addrs, msg, mail_options=(), rcpt_options=())¶
Send mail.  The required arguments are an RFC 822 from-address string, a list
of RFC 822 to-address strings (a bare string will be treated as a list with 1
address), and a message string.  The caller may pass a list of ESMTP options
(such as 8bitmime) to be used in MAIL FROM commands as mail_options.
ESMTP options (such as DSN commands) that should be used with all RCPT
commands can be passed as rcpt_options.  (If you need to use different ESMTP
options to different recipients you have to use the low-level methods such as
mail(), rcpt() and data() to send the message.)

Note
The from_addr and to_addrs parameters are used to construct the message
envelope used by the transport agents.  sendmail does not modify the
message headers in any way.

msg may be a string containing characters in the ASCII range, or a byte
string.  A string is encoded to bytes using the ascii codec, and lone \r
and \n characters are converted to \r\n characters.  A byte string is
not modified.
If there has been no previous EHLO or HELO command this session, this
method tries ESMTP EHLO first. If the server does ESMTP, message size and
each of the specified options will be passed to it (if the option is in the
feature set the server advertises).  If EHLO fails, HELO will be tried
and ESMTP options suppressed.
This method will return normally if the mail is accepted for at least one
recipient. Otherwise it will raise an exception.  That is, if this method does
not raise an exception, then someone should get your mail. If this method does
not raise an exception, it returns a dictionary, with one entry for each
recipient that was refused.  Each entry contains a tuple of the SMTP error code
and the accompanying error message sent by the server.
If SMTPUTF8 is included in mail_options, and the server supports it,
from_addr and to_addrs may contain non-ASCII characters.
This method may raise the following exceptions:

SMTPRecipientsRefused
All recipients were refused.  Nobody got the mail.  The recipients
attribute of the exception object is a dictionary with information about the
refused recipients (like the one returned when at least one recipient was
accepted).
SMTPHeloError
The server didn’t reply properly to the HELO greeting.
SMTPSenderRefused
The server didn’t accept the from_addr.
SMTPDataError
The server replied with an unexpected error code (other than a refusal of a
recipient).
SMTPNotSupportedError
SMTPUTF8 was given in the mail_options but is not supported by the
server.

Unless otherwise noted, the connection will be open even after an exception is
raised.

Changed in version 3.2: msg may be a byte string.


Changed in version 3.5: SMTPUTF8 support added, and SMTPNotSupportedError may be
raised if SMTPUTF8 is specified but the server does not support it.

