link:
library/http.cookiejar.html#cookie-objects

docs:

Cookie Objects¶
Cookie instances have Python attributes roughly corresponding to the
standard cookie-attributes specified in the various cookie standards.  The
correspondence is not one-to-one, because there are complicated rules for
assigning default values, because the max-age and expires
cookie-attributes contain equivalent information, and because RFC 2109 cookies
may be ‘downgraded’ by http.cookiejar from version 1 to version 0 (Netscape)
cookies.
Assignment to these attributes should not be necessary other than in rare
circumstances in a CookiePolicy method.  The class does not enforce
internal consistency, so you should know what you’re doing if you do that.


Cookie.version¶
Integer or None.  Netscape cookies have version 0. RFC 2965 and
RFC 2109 cookies have a version cookie-attribute of 1.  However, note that
http.cookiejar may ‘downgrade’ RFC 2109 cookies to Netscape cookies, in which
case version is 0.



Cookie.name¶
Cookie name (a string).



Cookie.value¶
Cookie value (a string), or None.



Cookie.port¶
String representing a port or a set of ports (eg. ‘80’, or ‘80,8080’), or
None.



Cookie.path¶
Cookie path (a string, eg. '/acme/rocket_launchers').



Cookie.secure¶
True if cookie should only be returned over a secure connection.



Cookie.expires¶
Integer expiry date in seconds since epoch, or None.  See also the
is_expired() method.



Cookie.discard¶
True if this is a session cookie.



Cookie.comment¶
String comment from the server explaining the function of this cookie, or
None.



Cookie.comment_url¶
URL linking to a comment from the server explaining the function of this cookie,
or None.



Cookie.rfc2109¶
True if this cookie was received as an RFC 2109 cookie (ie. the cookie
arrived in a Set-Cookie header, and the value of the Version
cookie-attribute in that header was 1).  This attribute is provided because
http.cookiejar may ‘downgrade’ RFC 2109 cookies to Netscape cookies, in
which case version is 0.



Cookie.port_specified¶
True if a port or set of ports was explicitly specified by the server (in the
Set-Cookie / Set-Cookie2 header).



Cookie.domain_specified¶
True if a domain was explicitly specified by the server.



Cookie.domain_initial_dot¶
True if the domain explicitly specified by the server began with a dot
('.').

Cookies may have additional non-standard cookie-attributes.  These may be
accessed using the following methods:


Cookie.has_nonstandard_attr(name)¶
Return true if cookie has the named cookie-attribute.



Cookie.get_nonstandard_attr(name, default=None)¶
If cookie has the named cookie-attribute, return its value. Otherwise, return
default.



Cookie.set_nonstandard_attr(name, value)¶
Set the value of the named cookie-attribute.

The Cookie class also defines the following method:


Cookie.is_expired(now=None)¶
True if cookie has passed the time at which the server requested it should
expire.  If now is given (in seconds since the epoch), return whether the
cookie has expired at the specified time.

