link:
library/wave.html#wave-write-objects

docs:

Wave_write Objects¶
For seekable output streams, the wave header will automatically be updated
to reflect the number of frames actually written.  For unseekable streams, the
nframes value must be accurate when the first frame data is written.  An
accurate nframes value can be achieved either by calling
setnframes() or setparams() with the number
of frames that will be written before close() is called and
then using writeframesraw() to write the frame data, or by
calling writeframes() with all of the frame data to be
written.  In the latter case writeframes() will calculate
the number of frames in the data and set nframes accordingly before writing
the frame data.
Wave_write objects, as returned by open(), have the following methods:

Changed in version 3.4: Added support for unseekable files.



Wave_write.close()¶
Make sure nframes is correct, and close the file if it was opened by
wave.  This method is called upon object collection.  It will raise
an exception if the output stream is not seekable and nframes does not
match the number of frames actually written.



Wave_write.setnchannels(n)¶
Set the number of channels.



Wave_write.setsampwidth(n)¶
Set the sample width to n bytes.



Wave_write.setframerate(n)¶
Set the frame rate to n.

Changed in version 3.2: A non-integral input to this method is rounded to the nearest
integer.




Wave_write.setnframes(n)¶
Set the number of frames to n.  This will be changed later if the number
of frames actually written is different (this update attempt will
raise an error if the output stream is not seekable).



Wave_write.setcomptype(type, name)¶
Set the compression type and description. At the moment, only compression type
NONE is supported, meaning no compression.



Wave_write.setparams(tuple)¶
The tuple should be (nchannels, sampwidth, framerate, nframes, comptype,
compname), with values valid for the set*() methods.  Sets all
parameters.



Wave_write.tell()¶
Return current position in the file, with the same disclaimer for the
Wave_read.tell() and Wave_read.setpos() methods.



Wave_write.writeframesraw(data)¶
Write audio frames, without correcting nframes.

Changed in version 3.4: Any bytes-like object is now accepted.




Wave_write.writeframes(data)¶
Write audio frames and make sure nframes is correct.  It will raise an
error if the output stream is not seekable and the total number of frames
that have been written after data has been written does not match the
previously set value for nframes.

Changed in version 3.4: Any bytes-like object is now accepted.


Note that it is invalid to set any parameters after calling writeframes()
or writeframesraw(), and any attempt to do so will raise
wave.Error.
