link:
library/chunk.html#chunk.Chunk

docs:


class chunk.Chunk(file, align=True, bigendian=True, inclheader=False)¶
Class which represents a chunk.  The file argument is expected to be a
file-like object.  An instance of this class is specifically allowed.  The
only method that is needed is read().  If the methods
seek() and tell() are present and don’t
raise an exception, they are also used.
If these methods are present and raise an exception, they are expected to not
have altered the object.  If the optional argument align is true, chunks
are assumed to be aligned on 2-byte boundaries.  If align is false, no
alignment is assumed.  The default value is true.  If the optional argument
bigendian is false, the chunk size is assumed to be in little-endian order.
This is needed for WAVE audio files. The default value is true.  If the
optional argument inclheader is true, the size given in the chunk header
includes the size of the header.  The default value is false.
A Chunk object supports the following methods:


getname()¶
Returns the name (ID) of the chunk.  This is the first 4 bytes of the
chunk.



getsize()¶
Returns the size of the chunk.



close()¶
Close and skip to the end of the chunk.  This does not close the
underlying file.

The remaining methods will raise OSError if called after the
close() method has been called.  Before Python 3.3, they used to
raise IOError, now an alias of OSError.


isatty()¶
Returns False.



seek(pos, whence=0)¶
Set the chunk’s current position.  The whence argument is optional and
defaults to 0 (absolute file positioning); other values are 1
(seek relative to the current position) and 2 (seek relative to the
file’s end).  There is no return value. If the underlying file does not
allow seek, only forward seeks are allowed.



tell()¶
Return the current position into the chunk.



read(size=-1)¶
Read at most size bytes from the chunk (less if the read hits the end of
the chunk before obtaining size bytes).  If the size argument is
negative or omitted, read all data until the end of the chunk.  An empty
bytes object is returned when the end of the chunk is encountered
immediately.



skip()¶
Skip to the end of the chunk.  All further calls to read() for the
chunk will return b''.  If you are not interested in the contents of
the chunk, this method should be called so that the file points to the
start of the next chunk.

