link:
library/gettext.html#gnu-gettext-api

docs:

GNU gettext API¶
The gettext module defines the following API, which is very similar to
the GNU gettext API.  If you use this API you will affect the
translation of your entire application globally.  Often this is what you want if
your application is monolingual, with the choice of language dependent on the
locale of your user.  If you are localizing a Python module, or if your
application needs to switch languages on the fly, you probably want to use the
class-based API instead.


gettext.bindtextdomain(domain, localedir=None)¶
Bind the domain to the locale directory localedir.  More concretely,
gettext will look for binary .mo files for the given domain using
the path (on Unix): localedir/language/LC_MESSAGES/domain.mo, where
languages is searched for in the environment variables LANGUAGE,
LC_ALL, LC_MESSAGES, and LANG respectively.
If localedir is omitted or None, then the current binding for domain is
returned. [1]



gettext.bind_textdomain_codeset(domain, codeset=None)¶
Bind the domain to codeset, changing the encoding of byte strings
returned by the lgettext(), ldgettext(), lngettext()
and ldngettext() functions.
If codeset is omitted, then the current binding is returned.



gettext.textdomain(domain=None)¶
Change or query the current global domain.  If domain is None, then the
current global domain is returned, otherwise the global domain is set to
domain, which is returned.



gettext.gettext(message)¶
Return the localized translation of message, based on the current global
domain, language, and locale directory.  This function is usually aliased as
_() in the local namespace (see examples below).



gettext.dgettext(domain, message)¶
Like gettext(), but look the message up in the specified domain.



gettext.ngettext(singular, plural, n)¶
Like gettext(), but consider plural forms. If a translation is found,
apply the plural formula to n, and return the resulting message (some
languages have more than two plural forms). If no translation is found, return
singular if n is 1; return plural otherwise.
The Plural formula is taken from the catalog header. It is a C or Python
expression that has a free variable n; the expression evaluates to the index
of the plural in the catalog. See
the GNU gettext documentation
for the precise syntax to be used in .po files and the
formulas for a variety of languages.



gettext.dngettext(domain, singular, plural, n)¶
Like ngettext(), but look the message up in the specified domain.



gettext.lgettext(message)¶



gettext.ldgettext(domain, message)¶



gettext.lngettext(singular, plural, n)¶



gettext.ldngettext(domain, singular, plural, n)¶
Equivalent to the corresponding functions without the l prefix
(gettext(), dgettext(), ngettext() and dngettext()),
but the translation is returned as a byte string encoded in the preferred
system encoding if no other encoding was explicitly set with
bind_textdomain_codeset().

Warning
These functions should be avoided in Python 3, because they return
encoded bytes.  It’s much better to use alternatives which return
Unicode strings instead, since most Python applications will want to
manipulate human readable text as strings instead of bytes.  Further,
it’s possible that you may get unexpected Unicode-related exceptions
if there are encoding problems with the translated strings.  It is
possible that the l*() functions will be deprecated in future Python
versions due to their inherent problems and limitations.


Note that GNU gettext also defines a dcgettext() method, but
this was deemed not useful and so it is currently unimplemented.
Here’s an example of typical usage for this API:
import gettext
gettext.bindtextdomain('myapplication', '/path/to/my/language/directory')
gettext.textdomain('myapplication')
_ = gettext.gettext
# ...
print(_('This is a translatable string.'))


