link:
library/locale.html#locale.nl_langinfo

docs:


locale.nl_langinfo(option)¶
Return some locale-specific information as a string.  This function is not
available on all systems, and the set of possible options might also vary
across platforms.  The possible argument values are numbers, for which
symbolic constants are available in the locale module.
The nl_langinfo() function accepts one of the following keys.  Most
descriptions are taken from the corresponding description in the GNU C
library.


locale.CODESET¶
Get a string with the name of the character encoding used in the
selected locale.



locale.D_T_FMT¶
Get a string that can be used as a format string for time.strftime() to
represent date and time in a locale-specific way.



locale.D_FMT¶
Get a string that can be used as a format string for time.strftime() to
represent a date in a locale-specific way.



locale.T_FMT¶
Get a string that can be used as a format string for time.strftime() to
represent a time in a locale-specific way.



locale.T_FMT_AMPM¶
Get a format string for time.strftime() to represent time in the am/pm
format.



DAY_1 ... DAY_7
Get the name of the n-th day of the week.

Note
This follows the US convention of DAY_1 being Sunday, not the
international convention (ISO 8601) that Monday is the first day of the
week.




ABDAY_1 ... ABDAY_7
Get the abbreviated name of the n-th day of the week.



MON_1 ... MON_12
Get the name of the n-th month.



ABMON_1 ... ABMON_12
Get the abbreviated name of the n-th month.



locale.RADIXCHAR¶
Get the radix character (decimal dot, decimal comma, etc.).



locale.THOUSEP¶
Get the separator character for thousands (groups of three digits).



locale.YESEXPR¶
Get a regular expression that can be used with the regex function to
recognize a positive response to a yes/no question.

Note
The expression is in the syntax suitable for the regex() function
from the C library, which might differ from the syntax used in re.




locale.NOEXPR¶
Get a regular expression that can be used with the regex(3) function to
recognize a negative response to a yes/no question.



locale.CRNCYSTR¶
Get the currency symbol, preceded by “-” if the symbol should appear before
the value, “+” if the symbol should appear after the value, or “.” if the
symbol should replace the radix character.



locale.ERA¶
Get a string that represents the era used in the current locale.
Most locales do not define this value.  An example of a locale which does
define this value is the Japanese one.  In Japan, the traditional
representation of dates includes the name of the era corresponding to the
then-emperor’s reign.
Normally it should not be necessary to use this value directly. Specifying
the E modifier in their format strings causes the time.strftime()
function to use this information.  The format of the returned string is not
specified, and therefore you should not assume knowledge of it on different
systems.



locale.ERA_D_T_FMT¶
Get a format string for time.strftime() to represent date and time in a
locale-specific era-based way.



locale.ERA_D_FMT¶
Get a format string for time.strftime() to represent a date in a
locale-specific era-based way.



locale.ERA_T_FMT¶
Get a format string for time.strftime() to represent a time in a
locale-specific era-based way.



locale.ALT_DIGITS¶
Get a representation of up to 100 values used to represent the values
0 to 99.

