link:
library/tkinter.html#tkinter-modules

docs:

Tkinter Modules¶
Most of the time, tkinter is all you really need, but a number of
additional modules are available as well.  The Tk interface is located in a
binary module named _tkinter. This module contains the low-level
interface to Tk, and should never be used directly by application programmers.
It is usually a shared library (or DLL), but might in some cases be statically
linked with the Python interpreter.
In addition to the Tk interface module, tkinter includes a number of
Python modules, tkinter.constants being one of the most important.
Importing tkinter will automatically import tkinter.constants,
so, usually, to use Tkinter all you need is a simple import statement:
import tkinter


Or, more often:
from tkinter import *




class tkinter.Tk(screenName=None, baseName=None, className='Tk', useTk=1)¶
The Tk class is instantiated without arguments. This creates a toplevel
widget of Tk which usually is the main window of an application. Each instance
has its own associated Tcl interpreter.



tkinter.Tcl(screenName=None, baseName=None, className='Tk', useTk=0)¶
The Tcl() function is a factory function which creates an object much like
that created by the Tk class, except that it does not initialize the Tk
subsystem.  This is most often useful when driving the Tcl interpreter in an
environment where one doesn’t want to create extraneous toplevel windows, or
where one cannot (such as Unix/Linux systems without an X server).  An object
created by the Tcl() object can have a Toplevel window created (and the Tk
subsystem initialized) by calling its loadtk() method.

Other modules that provide Tk support include:

tkinter.scrolledtext
Text widget with a vertical scroll bar built in.
tkinter.colorchooser
Dialog to let the user choose a color.
tkinter.commondialog
Base class for the dialogs defined in the other modules listed here.
tkinter.filedialog
Common dialogs to allow the user to specify a file to open or save.
tkinter.font
Utilities to help work with fonts.
tkinter.messagebox
Access to standard Tk dialog boxes.
tkinter.simpledialog
Basic dialogs and convenience functions.
tkinter.dnd
Drag-and-drop support for tkinter. This is experimental and should
become deprecated when it is replaced  with the Tk DND.
turtle
Turtle graphics in a Tk window.

