link:
library/tkinter.html#setting-options

docs:

Setting Options¶
Options control things like the color and border width of a widget. Options can
be set in three ways:

At object creation time, using keyword arguments
fred = Button(self, fg="red", bg="blue")



After object creation, treating the option name like a dictionary index
fred["fg"] = "red"
fred["bg"] = "blue"



Use the config() method to update multiple attrs subsequent to object creation
fred.config(fg="red", bg="blue")




For a complete explanation of a given option and its behavior, see the Tk man
pages for the widget in question.
Note that the man pages list “STANDARD OPTIONS” and “WIDGET SPECIFIC OPTIONS”
for each widget.  The former is a list of options that are common to many
widgets, the latter are the options that are idiosyncratic to that particular
widget.  The Standard Options are documented on the options(3) man
page.
No distinction between standard and widget-specific options is made in this
document.  Some options don’t apply to some kinds of widgets. Whether a given
widget responds to a particular option depends on the class of the widget;
buttons have a command option, labels do not.
The options supported by a given widget are listed in that widget’s man page, or
can be queried at runtime by calling the config() method without
arguments, or by calling the keys() method on that widget.  The return
value of these calls is a dictionary whose key is the name of the option as a
string (for example, 'relief') and whose values are 5-tuples.
Some options, like bg are synonyms for common options with long names
(bg is shorthand for “background”). Passing the config() method the name
of a shorthand option will return a 2-tuple, not 5-tuple. The 2-tuple passed
back will contain the name of the synonym and the “real” option (such as
('bg', 'background')).







Index
Meaning
Example



0
option name
'relief'

1
option name for database lookup
'relief'

2
option class for database
lookup
'Relief'

3
default value
'raised'

4
current value
'groove'



Example:
>>> print(fred.config())
{'relief': ('relief', 'relief', 'Relief', 'raised', 'groove')}


Of course, the dictionary printed will include all the options available and
their values.  This is meant only as an example.
