link:
library/tkinter.ttk.html#combobox

docs:

Combobox¶
The ttk.Combobox widget combines a text field with a pop-down list of
values. This widget is a subclass of Entry.
Besides the methods inherited from Widget: Widget.cget(),
Widget.configure(), Widget.identify(), Widget.instate()
and Widget.state(), and the following inherited from Entry:
Entry.bbox(), Entry.delete(), Entry.icursor(),
Entry.index(), Entry.insert(), Entry.selection(),
Entry.xview(), it has some other methods, described at
ttk.Combobox.

Options¶
This widget accepts the following specific options:







Option
Description



exportselection
Boolean value. If set, the widget selection is linked
to the Window Manager selection (which can be returned
by invoking Misc.selection_get, for example).

justify
Specifies how the text is aligned within the widget.
One of “left”, “center”, or “right”.

height
Specifies the height of the pop-down listbox, in rows.

postcommand
A script (possibly registered with Misc.register) that
is called immediately before displaying the values. It
may specify which values to display.

state
One of “normal”, “readonly”, or “disabled”. In the
“readonly” state, the value may not be edited directly,
and the user can only selection of the values from the
dropdown list. In the “normal” state, the text field is
directly editable. In the “disabled” state, no
interaction is possible.

textvariable
Specifies a name whose value is linked to the widget
value. Whenever the value associated with that name
changes, the widget value is updated, and vice versa.
See tkinter.StringVar.

values
Specifies the list of values to display in the
drop-down listbox.

width
Specifies an integer value indicating the desired width
of the entry window, in average-size characters of the
widget’s font.






Virtual events¶
The combobox widgets generates a <<ComboboxSelected>> virtual event
when the user selects an element from the list of values.


ttk.Combobox¶


class tkinter.ttk.Combobox¶


current(newindex=None)¶
If newindex is specified, sets the combobox value to the element
position newindex. Otherwise, returns the index of the current value or
-1 if the current value is not in the values list.



get()¶
Returns the current value of the combobox.



set(value)¶
Sets the value of the combobox to value.



