link:
library/tkinter.ttk.html#spinbox

docs:

Spinbox¶
The ttk.Spinbox widget is a ttk.Entry enhanced with increment
and decrement arrows.  It can be used for numbers or lists of string values.
This widget is a subclass of Entry.
Besides the methods inherited from Widget: Widget.cget(),
Widget.configure(), Widget.identify(), Widget.instate()
and Widget.state(), and the following inherited from Entry:
Entry.bbox(), Entry.delete(), Entry.icursor(),
Entry.index(), Entry.insert(), Entry.xview(),
it has some other methods, described at ttk.Spinbox.

Options¶
This widget accepts the following specific options:








Option
Description



from
Float value.  If set, this is the minimum value to
which the decrement button will decrement.  Must be
spelled as from_ when used as an argument, since
from is a Python keyword.

to
Float value.  If set, this is the maximum value to
which the increment button will increment.

increment
Float value.  Specifies the amount which the
increment/decrement buttons change the
value. Defaults to 1.0.

values
Sequence of string or float values.  If specified,
the increment/decrement buttons will cycle through
the items in this sequence rather than incrementing
or decrementing numbers.

wrap
Boolean value.  If True, increment and decrement
buttons will cycle from the to value to the
from value or the from value to the to
value, respectively.

format
String value.  This specifies the format of numbers
set by the increment/decrement buttons.  It must be
in the form “%W.Pf”, where W is the padded width of
the value, P is the precision, and ‘%’ and ‘f’ are
literal.

command
Python callable.  Will be called with no arguments
whenever either of the increment or decrement buttons
are pressed.





Virtual events¶
The spinbox widget generates an <<Increment>> virtual event when the
user presses <Up>, and a <<Decrement>> virtual event when the user
presses <Down>.


ttk.Spinbox¶


class tkinter.ttk.Spinbox¶


get()¶
Returns the current value of the spinbox.



set(value)¶
Sets the value of the spinbox to value.



