link:
library/textwrap.html#textwrap.TextWrapper

docs:


class textwrap.TextWrapper(**kwargs)¶
The TextWrapper constructor accepts a number of optional keyword
arguments.  Each keyword argument corresponds to an instance attribute, so
for example
wrapper = TextWrapper(initial_indent="* ")


is the same as
wrapper = TextWrapper()
wrapper.initial_indent = "* "


You can re-use the same TextWrapper object many times, and you can
change any of its options through direct assignment to instance attributes
between uses.
The TextWrapper instance attributes (and keyword arguments to the
constructor) are as follows:


width¶
(default: 70) The maximum length of wrapped lines.  As long as there
are no individual words in the input text longer than width,
TextWrapper guarantees that no output line will be longer than
width characters.



expand_tabs¶
(default: True) If true, then all tab characters in text will be
expanded to spaces using the expandtabs() method of text.



tabsize¶
(default: 8) If expand_tabs is true, then all tab characters
in text will be expanded to zero or more spaces, depending on the
current column and the given tab size.

New in version 3.3.




replace_whitespace¶
(default: True) If true, after tab expansion but before wrapping,
the wrap() method will replace each whitespace character
with a single space.  The whitespace characters replaced are
as follows: tab, newline, vertical tab, formfeed, and carriage
return ('\t\n\v\f\r').

Note
If expand_tabs is false and replace_whitespace is true,
each tab character will be replaced by a single space, which is not
the same as tab expansion.


Note
If replace_whitespace is false, newlines may appear in the
middle of a line and cause strange output. For this reason, text should
be split into paragraphs (using str.splitlines() or similar)
which are wrapped separately.




drop_whitespace¶
(default: True) If true, whitespace at the beginning and ending of
every line (after wrapping but before indenting) is dropped.
Whitespace at the beginning of the paragraph, however, is not dropped
if non-whitespace follows it.  If whitespace being dropped takes up an
entire line, the whole line is dropped.



initial_indent¶
(default: '') String that will be prepended to the first line of
wrapped output.  Counts towards the length of the first line.  The empty
string is not indented.



subsequent_indent¶
(default: '') String that will be prepended to all lines of wrapped
output except the first.  Counts towards the length of each line except
the first.



fix_sentence_endings¶
(default: False) If true, TextWrapper attempts to detect
sentence endings and ensure that sentences are always separated by exactly
two spaces.  This is generally desired for text in a monospaced font.
However, the sentence detection algorithm is imperfect: it assumes that a
sentence ending consists of a lowercase letter followed by one of '.',
'!', or '?', possibly followed by one of '"' or "'",
followed by a space.  One problem with this is algorithm is that it is
unable to detect the difference between “Dr.” in
[...] Dr. Frankenstein's monster [...]


and “Spot.” in
[...] See Spot. See Spot run [...]


fix_sentence_endings is false by default.
Since the sentence detection algorithm relies on string.lowercase for
the definition of “lowercase letter,” and a convention of using two spaces
after a period to separate sentences on the same line, it is specific to
English-language texts.



break_long_words¶
(default: True) If true, then words longer than width will be
broken in order to ensure that no lines are longer than width.  If
it is false, long words will not be broken, and some lines may be longer
than width.  (Long words will be put on a line by themselves, in
order to minimize the amount by which width is exceeded.)



break_on_hyphens¶
(default: True) If true, wrapping will occur preferably on whitespaces
and right after hyphens in compound words, as it is customary in English.
If false, only whitespaces will be considered as potentially good places
for line breaks, but you need to set break_long_words to false if
you want truly insecable words.  Default behaviour in previous versions
was to always allow breaking hyphenated words.



max_lines¶
(default: None) If not None, then the output will contain at most
max_lines lines, with placeholder appearing at the end of the output.

New in version 3.4.




placeholder¶
(default: ' [...]') String that will appear at the end of the output
text if it has been truncated.

New in version 3.4.


TextWrapper also provides some public methods, analogous to the
module-level convenience functions:


wrap(text)¶
Wraps the single paragraph in text (a string) so every line is at most
width characters long.  All wrapping options are taken from
instance attributes of the TextWrapper instance.  Returns a list
of output lines, without final newlines.  If the wrapped output has no
content, the returned list is empty.



fill(text)¶
Wraps the single paragraph in text, and returns a single string
containing the wrapped paragraph.

