link:
library/tracemalloc.html#snapshot

docs:

Snapshot¶


class tracemalloc.Snapshot¶
Snapshot of traces of memory blocks allocated by Python.
The take_snapshot() function creates a snapshot instance.


compare_to(old_snapshot: Snapshot, key_type: str, cumulative: bool=False)¶
Compute the differences with an old snapshot. Get statistics as a sorted
list of StatisticDiff instances grouped by key_type.
See the Snapshot.statistics() method for key_type and cumulative
parameters.
The result is sorted from the biggest to the smallest by: absolute value
of StatisticDiff.size_diff, StatisticDiff.size, absolute
value of StatisticDiff.count_diff, Statistic.count and
then by StatisticDiff.traceback.



dump(filename)¶
Write the snapshot into a file.
Use load() to reload the snapshot.



filter_traces(filters)¶
Create a new Snapshot instance with a filtered traces
sequence, filters is a list of DomainFilter and
Filter instances.  If filters is an empty list, return a new
Snapshot instance with a copy of the traces.
All inclusive filters are applied at once, a trace is ignored if no
inclusive filters match it. A trace is ignored if at least one exclusive
filter matches it.

Changed in version 3.6: DomainFilter instances are now also accepted in filters.




classmethod load(filename)¶
Load a snapshot from a file.
See also dump().



statistics(key_type: str, cumulative: bool=False)¶
Get statistics as a sorted list of Statistic instances grouped
by key_type:






key_type
description



'filename'
filename

'lineno'
filename and line number

'traceback'
traceback



If cumulative is True, cumulate size and count of memory blocks of
all frames of the traceback of a trace, not only the most recent frame.
The cumulative mode can only be used with key_type equals to
'filename' and 'lineno'.
The result is sorted from the biggest to the smallest by:
Statistic.size, Statistic.count and then by
Statistic.traceback.



traceback_limit¶
Maximum number of frames stored in the traceback of traces:
result of the get_traceback_limit() when the snapshot was taken.



traces¶
Traces of all memory blocks allocated by Python: sequence of
Trace instances.
The sequence has an undefined order. Use the Snapshot.statistics()
method to get a sorted list of statistics.


