link:
library/inspect.html#retrieving-source-code

docs:

Retrieving source code¶


inspect.getdoc(object)¶
Get the documentation string for an object, cleaned up with cleandoc().
If the documentation string for an object is not provided and the object is
a class, a method, a property or a descriptor, retrieve the documentation
string from the inheritance hierarchy.

Changed in version 3.5: Documentation strings are now inherited if not overridden.




inspect.getcomments(object)¶
Return in a single string any lines of comments immediately preceding the
object’s source code (for a class, function, or method), or at the top of the
Python source file (if the object is a module).  If the object’s source code
is unavailable, return None.  This could happen if the object has been
defined in C or the interactive shell.



inspect.getfile(object)¶
Return the name of the (text or binary) file in which an object was defined.
This will fail with a TypeError if the object is a built-in module,
class, or function.



inspect.getmodule(object)¶
Try to guess which module an object was defined in.



inspect.getsourcefile(object)¶
Return the name of the Python source file in which an object was defined.  This
will fail with a TypeError if the object is a built-in module, class, or
function.



inspect.getsourcelines(object)¶
Return a list of source lines and starting line number for an object. The
argument may be a module, class, method, function, traceback, frame, or code
object.  The source code is returned as a list of the lines corresponding to the
object and the line number indicates where in the original source file the first
line of code was found.  An OSError is raised if the source code cannot
be retrieved.

Changed in version 3.3: OSError is raised instead of IOError, now an alias of the
former.




inspect.getsource(object)¶
Return the text of the source code for an object. The argument may be a module,
class, method, function, traceback, frame, or code object.  The source code is
returned as a single string.  An OSError is raised if the source code
cannot be retrieved.

Changed in version 3.3: OSError is raised instead of IOError, now an alias of the
former.




inspect.cleandoc(doc)¶
Clean up indentation from docstrings that are indented to line up with blocks
of code.
All leading whitespace is removed from the first line.  Any leading whitespace
that can be uniformly removed from the second line onwards is removed.  Empty
lines at the beginning and end are subsequently removed.  Also, all tabs are
expanded to spaces.

