Natural Text
I can't seem to find any good answer to my problem. I'm trying to create a Maintenance Mode for my game and I want the user to be able to input a room name from the main menu and be able to spawn to that room. Here's the code. I have a module set up asThis is just to pass through obviously, then in the game I have this.Now this code works like a charm, I can put a room name inside the brackets of MM.Room_Name() and I spawn to the room no problem. What I want is a more User Friendly version.Ok so I have it setup in the main menu of the game to type a code which enters Maintenance Mode then check in MM.Room_Name() for the room to call. I would like it to instead, when I type the code at the main menu, to ask for a room name, and spawn there. I can't seem to get this to work and I've searched like crazy to find a solution. I've triedBut I can't get it to work, I just get str not callable, and I tried several other solutions to the problem, even more complex versions of what I did and still nothing working. I've tried to avoid asking here as I'm afraid the question has already been answered, but I've been stuck for weeks and I'm kinda desperate. And yes I triedBut I'm still having no luck. If at all possible I would like to avoid making a list of all the rooms in my game and making a check list. But if that's my only solution, I guess it wouldn't hurt. I just figured since I can call the room name in MM.Room_Name(Escape()) that there must be a way for user input to go in there and be callable. Any suggestions guys? I would really appreciate it.vEdit 1vSo code simulates what I want. Run this code and type 164 at the main menu to enter Maintenance Mode, it will spawn to the room Bedroom() that is in MM.Room_Name(Bedroom()). What I want is for the user to enter the password 164, and it will ask the player what room you want to spawn in, and somehow call that room from the user input. Don't try any other options, just type 164 at Menu and it will spawn to Bedroom(). So I need to figure out how I can turn user input into a callable function that way players trying Maintenance Mode doesn't have to edit the room in MM.Room_Name() every time they want a different room, instead, when player enters Maintenance Mode, the game asks for room name, and spawn there. I included a Bedroom and a Livingroom for you guys to test. Just switch between them in MM.Room_Name() and see how it works when you enter Maintenance Mode. And hopefully this gives you an idea of how I want the user input version to work.
After assigning ask, you should not attempt to call it as a function since it is a string. Sowithout the parantheses on ask() might work better.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html
