Natural Text
OK, so I want to start an adventure game and don't know how to get the program to choose between 2 answers. For example: Do you want to start? input(), but then I don't know how to make it chose between if the player said "no" to break and quit or if he said "yes" to continue to the next question. This is my code:
IMMEDIATE PROBLEMIn formal structured programming, you would handle this with the test that Keatinge gave you:... and the rest of the program would be indented to make it all the "true" branch of the if.  In the practical world, I'd do this with the reverse logic: if the user says "no", then end the program:LARGER PROBLEMSLearning codeYou'll help yourself a lot if you read through your class materials or a Python tutorial to learn these things.  Really.  Stack Overflow is not a tutorial site; you should be able to look up the basics on your own.  Also, you really don't want to wait for us to respond to little mechanical questions.Designing your programUse whatever descriptive tools work for you: a flowchart, a story board, anything that helps you draw out what happens in what order, and what information you need to keep (variables).  If it's any help, "Learning Python the Hard Way" has a nice core for an adventure game -- and you can certainly search for "Python adventure" to get code that helps you with your own organization.ImplementationYou're starting correctly, but make sure you keep it up: code a few lines, make sure they do what you want, and don't continue until they work.  For instance, you should now code the if statement you need, and a simple message in each branch to tell you that you got there properly.  Test it out a few times, entering at least "YES", "no", and other junk.That should get you started.  Most of all, have fun.  Kill a beast with your bare hands.  Steal some treasures.  Fall into a pit with spikes.  Get eaten by an angry house cat.
Simple example with comments:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#if-statements
