Natural Text
For example, when i use matplotlib as plt, a possible statement is like below:plt.plot(x,y,color='blue')so how can i get what arguments like 'color' i can pass to the 'plot' function, and what is the proper values for that  argument?Especially when i use some modules.thanks for any answers.
I'm a little disappointed that this post is being downvoted because I think it's a very legitimate question. In particular, I appreciate that you asked not what the answer was but instead how you could find it for yourself in the future.Exploring Local Python DocumentationPython has a very robust built-in documentation system as well as a very active and supportive community. At any point in time, you can use the help function to examine a particular object that you want more information on - this will pull up the documentation for that object. In your example, you could do something like:to pull up the documentation for the matplotlib.pyplot.plot function. Outside of a running Python process, you can use the pydoc command line tool to read and explore that same documentation. Something like:Running that in the shell will display the same documentation as the help command example.Writing DocumentationAs a good citizen of the Python ecosystem, you'll naturally want to document your own code. This is done pretty simply by adding a docstring to the top of a function, class, or module. Docstrings are denoted with a triple quotation mark """, seen in the examples below:There are many different documentation styles that people prefer, so what you choose is up to you. Though I would recommend the official docstring standards outlined in PEP 257.Finding Online ResourcesIt's also often useful to take advantage of online documentation and resources. The official Python documentation includes all of the builtin documentation for the standard libraries as well as a tutorial for developers who are new to Python!As it seems that you're relatively new to the ecosystem yourself, here's some more resources that you might find useful:Learn Python the Hard WayCodeAcademy has a Python trackStackOverflow, obviously


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/
