Natural Text
I'm learning about how to import libraries from directories and I've stumbled upon an error I can't seem to figure out. I'm using the IMDBpy python library in a folder called lib. Below, I am importing the module which no longer returns any errors, but when I move to line number 6, I get the following error:Python is throwing an error because the python test file I'm writing is 2 directories up. Not sure how to get it working without putting everything in the same directory.
You can either write:or:But importing IMDb and then calling imdb.IMDb() does not work.One other point to mention: If your testlib.py resides above the lib foder, then you need to add a __init__.py file within lib for your import to work. The file can be completely empty.Update: This packages uses import statement that are not relative to the package folder, but to an arbitrary folder in sys.path. An illustration of this is the exact line that causes the error:This works only if the packages resides in a folder that is part of sys.path, so either in the same path as the script that does the from imdb import IMDb statement or in the python dist-package path (simplified explanation). This and all equivalent imports could be replaced byIn which case the import is relative to the module, so there is no need for the imdbpy package to reside in a directory in sys.path.The consequence for us now is that we cannot simply put imdb in a sub-folder, we need to either put it in a folder from sys.path or add the folder it resides in to sys.path. So, the options are:install the packagemove the imdb folder up into the current folderwrite:before the import statement. In any of the above cases you will be able to do:
As mentioned above, it is different importing an object from importing a function.When you import a module such as imdb you may use its functions. However, when you import a function, you can only use that function, not the object/module where it came from.Check this for better examples: Python 3 modules


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html#modules
