Natural Text
I have a problem in which users can input spaces or nothing and still pass through the program, how do I go about preventing this? I am still a beginner at python. Here is my attempt at doing this but I get all kinds of unindent and indent errors at the moment and I think my while loops are probably wrong. Essentially if I input a space or hit enter into one of the customer inputs (customerName for instance) it gets stored. This needs to prevented and I have tried to fix it by using while loops which obviously haven't worked.Hopefully someone has a solution to this problemMany Thanks. 
.strip() removes all tabs or spaces before and after a string.Meaning all spaces == empty string. All tabs == empty string. So all you have to check if the length of that string != 0 or the string is not empty. Just use an infinite loop to keep on forcing the right input.Also as a tip, you don't have to limit yourself into one function.Here's a working code below.
Try using a regular expression that checks if any character between "A-Z" has been inserted, if not, give an error 
The while loops are a decent solution, you just need to add more checks to your if statements. First, you don't need a try statement on the top two loops. Don't use a try statement unless you're expecting an error, which you need to handle with an except statement, like you do in the bottom while loop.Then you just need to add more conditions to your top two loops, I don't know exactly what you want to prevent, but you could try checking the length of the input, also see this answer for an interesting method: https://stackoverflow.com/a/2405300/8201979
Instead of using input right away you can make a function similar to this one that will only allow valid inputs.You can use this valid_input function instead of input.here the check is pretty simple: every text made out of nothing or spaces won't be allowed and we will keep asking for the same input until a valid information is given.I made this code simple just so you get a general idea. But you can change the validation test to your liking and maybe also output a warning saying why the input wasn't allowed so the person knows what to do. You can do more advanced validation with regex, and maybe you need a minimum text length etc...
You have indent error because you have a try statement without the corresponding except.You need both to make it work (as you did in the Phone number section).Here is a link to the try/except: docsAlso, you can check if a string is empty as detailed in this answer.So for example you want to write:Although the above seems a bit redundant, so you might want to raise an exception if the customer name is empty, catch the exception in the except block, print the warning and return error (or something else).
Try adding another while true for pick and delivery option so that it can prevent taking other inputs
you don't need any of those try/excepts (which are broken anyway).Its difficult to figure out what you're trying to do, are you trying to raise an exception if an empty string is passed, or request another input from the user? You seem to be half implementing both at the moment.If its the latter, something like this would work.
What you are looking for is the str.strip method that remove trailing whitespace in strings.Also I think try is not particularly suited for your needs here.for the phone number I would not convert to integer because if the phone number starts with zeros, they will not be stored.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/regex.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#template-strings
