Natural Text
Is there a way using Python's standard library to easily determine (i.e. one function call) the last day of a given month?If the standard library doesn't support that, does the dateutil package support this?
I didn't notice this earlier when I was looking at the documentation for the calendar module, but a method called monthrange provides this information:monthrange(year, month)      Returns weekday of first day of the month and number of days in month, for the specified year and month. so:seems like the simplest way to go.Just to be clear, monthrange supports leap years as well:My previous answer still works, but is clearly suboptimal.
If you don't want to import the calendar module, a simple two-step function can also be:Outputs:
EDIT: See @Blair Conrad's answer for a cleaner solution
EDIT: see my other answer. It has a better implementation than this one, which I leave here just in case someone's interested in seeing how one might "roll your own" calculator.@John Millikin gives a good answer, with the added complication of calculating the first day of the next month.The following isn't particularly elegant, but to figure out the last day of the month that any given date lives in, you could try:
This is actually pretty easy with dateutil.relativedelta (package python-datetutil for pip). day=31 will always always return the last day of the month.Example:
Using relativedelta you would get last date of month like this:The idea is to get the fist day of month and use relativedelta to go 1 month ahead and 1 day back so you would get the last day of the month you wanted.
Another solution would be to do something like this: And use the function like this:


if you are willing to use an external library, check out http://crsmithdev.com/arrow/U can then get the last day of the month with:This returns a date object which you can then do your manipulation.
To get the last date of the month we do something like this:Now to explain what we are doing here we will break it into two parts:first is getting the number of days of the current month for which we use monthrange which Blair Conrad has already mentioned his solution:second is getting the last date itself which we do with the help of replace e.gand when we combine them as mentioned on the top we get a dynamic solution.

For me it's the simplest way:
The easiest way (without having to import calendar), is to get the first day of the next month, and then subtract a day from it.Output:PS: This code runs faster as compared to the import calendarapproach; see below:OUTPUT:This code assumes that you want the date of the last day of the month (i.e., not just the DD part, but the entire YYYYMMDD date)
You can calculate the end date yourself. the simple logic is to subtract a day from the start_date of next month. :) So write a custom method,Calling, It will return the end date of this month. Pass any date to this function. returns you the end date of that month. 
Here is another answer. No extra packages required.Get the first day of the next month and subtract a day from it.
This does not address the main question, but one nice trick to get the last weekday in a month is to use calendar.monthcalendar, which returns a matrix of dates, organized with Monday as the first column through Sunday as the last.The whole [0:-2] thing is to shave off the weekend columns and throw them out. Dates that fall outside of the month are indicated by 0, so the max effectively ignores them.The use of numpy.ravel is not strictly necessary, but I hate relying on the mere convention that numpy.ndarray.max will flatten the array if not told which axis to calculate over.
Use pandas!
I prefer this way
If you want to make your own small function, this is a good starting point:For this you have to know the rules for the leap years:every fourth yearwith the exception of every 100 yearbut again every 400 years
In Python 3.7 there is the undocumented calendar.monthlen(year, month) function:It is equivalent to the documented calendar.monthrange(year, month)[1] call.
Output:This will print the last day of whatever the current month is. In this example it was 15th May, 2016.  So your output may be different, however the output will be as many days that the current month is.  Great if you want to check the last day of the month by running a daily cron job.So: Output:Unless it IS the last day of the month.
If you pass in a date range, you can use this:
In the code below 'get_last_day_of_month(dt)' will give you this, with date in string format like 'YYYY-MM-DD'.
you can use relativedeltahttps://dateutil.readthedocs.io/en/stable/relativedelta.htmlmonth_end = <your datetime value within the month> + relativedelta(day=31)that will give you the last day.
Here is a solution based python lambdas:The next_month lambda finds the tuple representation of the first day of the next month, and rolls over to the next year. The month_end lambda transforms a date (dte) to a tuple, applies next_month and creates a new date. Then the "month's end" is just the next month's first day minus timedelta(days=1).
I hope,It's usefull for very much..Try it on this way..we must need import some package
i have a simple solution:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/calendar.html#calendar.monthrange
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#datetime.datetime.replace
https://docs.python.org/3/library/calendar.html#calendar.monthrange
