Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:How to create raw string from string variable in python?                    3 answers                I am writing an online regex checker, which takes input from the user in the form of a pattern, and flags, and uses that to compile a regex object. The regex object is then used to check if the test string matches within the format provided by the regex pattern or not. As of this moment, the compile function looks like this:Please note, the self.pattern and all the flags are class attributes defined by the user using a simple form. However, one thing I noticed in the docs is that there is usually an r before the pattern in the compile functions, like this:How do I place that r in my code before my variable name? Also, if I want to tell the user if the test input is valid or not, should I be using the match method, or the search method? Thanks for any help.Edit: This question is not a duplicate of this one, because that question has nothing to do with regular expressions.
Don't worry about the r, you don't need it here.The r stands for "raw", not "regex". In an r string, you can put backslashes without escaping them. R strings are often used in regexes because there are often many backslashes in regexes. Escaping the backslashes can be annoying. See this shell output:And you should use search, as match only looks at the start of the string. Look at the docs.re.search(pattern, string, flags=0) Scan through string looking for  the first location where the regular expression pattern produces a  match, and return a corresponding match object. Return None if no  position in the string matches the pattern; note that this is  different from finding a zero-length match at some point in the  string.re.match(pattern, string, flags=0) If zero or more characters at the  beginning of string match the regular expression pattern, return a  corresponding match object. Return None if the string does not match  the pattern; note that this is different from a zero-length match.Note that even in MULTILINE mode, re.match() will only match at the  beginning of the string and not at the beginning of each line.If you want to locate a match anywhere in string, use search() instead  (see also search() vs. match()).
You need not use r.Instead you should use re.escape.match or search again should be user input.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.search
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.escape
