Natural Text
I do not understand how the result is 10...Specifically where in the function does it create the loop that adds 1, 2, 3 and 4?I am also new to Stackoverflow, so if there is a relative article that I overlooked then please do refer me. 
This is how a for loop works,it will loop over each element you provide it.so,When this runs, you getNow the range function, creates a sequence of x numbers ranging from 0 to x-1 so,is equivalent to:Keep in mind, it starts at 0 and ends at x-1we could also dowhich would be equivalent to:note that in python2 range actually returns the list where as in python3 range is a separate sequence type. For the purposes of a for loop, they do the same thing.
As mentioned in comments, you need to know what does the range function to understand that loop.range(x) function creates an array which contains from 0 to x-1. So range(5) create the array [0, 1, 2, 3, 4]. So the loop:it's equivalent to:
This is the loop you are looking for. It iterates over every element in range(x).When you have range(5), you are telling python to generate 5 integers, which are up to but not including 5. So they are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4.The += operator adds right operand to the left operand and assign the result to left operand. So in your case, with the function and the loop iterating from 0 to 4, you are telling python to generate a function called func(x); within this function, generate a range of integers, from 0 up to but not including 5; add whatever i is to res (to add 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 sequentially to res). Finally it becomes 10.
res += i means res= res+i so for loop loops as belowres = 0, initially The supplied list for looping is so res += i is applied for each element of the listthe variable 'i' is a temporary variable used to loop through the for loop function.so value of 'i' will be changing every time it loops i.e the value of res keeps on changing as per the for loopFinal returned value is 10 as for loop ends at 4 value in the list
From Python.org:If you do need to iterate over a sequence of numbers, the built-in function range() comes in handy. It generates lists containing arithmetic progressions, e.g.:Essentially, for i in range(10) is the same as saying for i in [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]The += operator is the same as saying res = res + valueSo, in combination with the range statement, this piece of code is looking at the first element of the list, 0, adding that to zero(your starting element: res = 0), then adding one to that, then adding two to the result of the previous computation (resulting in 3), and so on.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#func-range
