Natural Text
So I'm programming an app, which lets you store the info you provide to a listbox, which can be also used to print the data somewhere. (Create a txt with it stored.) I also tried all the advice from previous users posts, but couldn't find my case. Any help appreciated.For some reason im getting the error you see in the title.Here's my code:
You're getting that error because your Print function tries to open a file in this format. The open function in os accepts filename, mode, buffer in that order.  This is what you have in your script:You are passing (file name, path, mode).  Instead, you should do something like this:BTW, you will still have errors with how you are writing.  I'd suggest you read the documentation for os items and their use in Python 3.  Go to your terminal and run this:  Also, read this article, it will help you with migrating code from python 2 to 3 and will help you spot potential issues with migrations.  THe paragraph particularly interesting in your case is this one:As part of this dichotomy you also need to be careful about opening  files. Unless you have been working on Windows, there is a chance you  have not always bothered to add the b mode when opening a binary file  (e.g., rb for binary reading). Under Python 3, binary files and text  files are clearly distinct and mutually incompatible; see the io  module for details. Therefore, you must make a decision of whether a  file will be used for binary access (allowing binary data to be read  and/or written) or textual access (allowing text data to be read  and/or written). You should also use io.open() for opening files  instead of the built-in open() function as the io module is consistent  from Python 2 to 3 while the built-in open() function is not (in  Python 3 it’s actually io.open()). Do not bother with the outdated  practice of using codecs.open() as that’s only necessary for keeping  compatibility with Python 2.5.
The parameter encoding  has to be passed like thisThis code need to be re-written as as


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/pyporting.html
