Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:Random string generation with upper case letters and digits                    29 answers                I just want to ask that like taking random number from: I just want to ask that how to take random string just like  but this time with random string. Is there anyway?This is a little game which request from you to enter 6 names and then the game will guess a number between those 6 numbers you have entered but it always gaves me an error.  want to do it with random string. My Working VersionOutput
Output:
Hello M. Husnain,Chr() Functionchr(i)Return the string representing a character whose Unicode code point is the integer i. For example, chr(97) returns the string 'a', while chr(8364) returns the string '€'. This is the inverse of ord().  The valid range for the argument is from 0 through 1,114,111 (0x10FFFF in base 16). ValueError will be raised if i is outside that range.SolutionTry this below code,I hope my answer is helpful.If any query so comment please.
You can do it using random.randint :You  just have to loop over that to build strings from letters
try this,
Instead of saving the names into different variables I'd propose a list containing the names entered. It could look something like this:You can then randomly select a list item using random.choice e.g.
Update:For the specific case you described, you can simply create a list of characters containing all of the characters you allow. then you can use this, to create a word of length  (replace with actual length:Original:Random string - define your charactersYou should first decide what kind of characters you want to use.For example, if you want to use ASCII chars from 0 to 127 or maybe just a-z and A-Z. Also consider digits, space etc. So you should first decide the set of characters you want to select randomly from.Selecting a character randomlyIf you would like to use 0 to 127 range in the ASCII table, you can use this:Generating a random wordNow, to create a word, you should first decide the size of it. This can also be randomize. For example, we will randomly choose a size of a word (with limited range):


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.choice
