Natural Text
From https://docs.python.org/3.3/reference/datamodel.htmlInstance methods An instance method object combines a class, a class instance and any  callable object (normally a user-deﬁned function).If it is a definition, could you explain what it means?If it is not a definition, what is the definition of an "instance method"?Is an "instance method" the same concept of a method of a class? Since someone brings up class method and static method, bound method and unbound method, let me clarify: I understand a method of a class can be an ordinary method, a class method, or a static method. I understand a method of a class accessed via the class or its instance can be bound or function. I have never heard of "an instance method". I don't know that it is even after looking at the quote, and not sure if it is related to ordinary method, a class method, or a static method, or bound method or function . I hope you understand my confusion.Thanks.
Your confusion comes from what exactly this definition is about. The term "instance method" is actually used to describe both the concept (a method that works on an instance - by opposition with a classmethod or staticmethod) and its technical implementation. The definition you quote is about the technical implementation.  If you want to understand the context of this definition, you can read this article in the Python wiki, which explains how Python turns functions into methods at runtime.
Tada! That's an instance method object. It's the thing you get when you retrieve a method of an object, before you call it.
What is an instance method?An instance method is a function the is bound to a class instance. The instance of the class is implicitly passed as the first argument to instance methods. It essentially belongs to that specific instance. An instance method is the "normal" type of method people use. This is opposed to a static method or class method created using staticmethod and classmethod respectively.Here's an example of an instance method:It's that simple.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html?highlight=staticmethod#staticmethod
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html?highlight=staticmethod#classmethod
