Natural Text
I am learning Python this semester and this is my homework.Can anyone tell me why my code is wrong?QUESTION:You want to know your grade in Computer Science, so write a program that continuously takes grades between 0 and 100 to standard input until you input "stop", at which point it should print your average to standard output.MY CODE:When I run the code, the Python keeps giving me this messages:
Change input to raw_input
You are using Python 2.7, so use raw_input instead of input.  The latter evaluates the input, so 5 + 2 will return 7 instead of the string '5 + 2'.  Entering stop tries to evaluate stop as a variable, which doesn't exist.Another note, total and count are both integers, so total/count performs integer division in Python 2 (Python 3 gives a float result).  If you want a floating point average, use float(total)/count.  One of the variables must be float to get a float answer.You'll also find that grade is a string, so test for 'stop' first, then convert it to an int to test the grade grade = int(grade).  You might want to think about handling errors.  What if the user types 10a?
You can evaluate first the string stop, try capture the input with raw_input:I added different conditions for correct execution, check the lines, for example if grade.isdigit(): for verify that the input value is a numeric value, when this evaluation we can work normally with any math calculation.count == 0: for the error division by zero if the user write stop in first iteration.In the last line you can use two different ways to print the values:or 
You're running this program in Python 2 where input evaluates the user input. So if you enter "stop", Python tries to find the variable stop which doesn't exist and raises the NameError.There are more problems and you need to restructure the code. The first thing you should do is to change input to raw_input which just returns the user input as a string. Then you need to check if the user entered "stop" and break, otherwise convert the input string to an int and then increment the count and total.    total = 0    count = 0


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html#handling-exceptions
