Natural Text
I am studying python, both 3. and 2.  I started a few days ago.I want to know the differences between site module and interpreter.I got this question from Python exit commands - why so many and when should each be used?Those explanations are very clear but it's still hard to me.
I assume you are stuck on understanding: "Nevertheless, quit should not be used in production code. This is  because it only works if the site module is loaded. Instead, this  function should only be used in the interpreter."Basically, what that is saying is that quit is a part of a module loaded in the python interpreter. That module's name, is site.Firstly, the python interpreter is what you use to run python scripts or environments. It interprets python commands. For example, if you write a = 1 in a script or python environment, the interpreter takes that command and executes it without compiling it. (If it was a language like c you would need to compile the script before you run it).Secondly, a module is a pre-written file that can define functions, classes and variables. When you write import numpy into python, you are importing the module, numpy. Therefore when they say "this only works if the site module is loaded", that means that import site must be executed. When you start a python interpreter (by typing python into your command shell), it automatically imports site, which has sys, venv and main etc. which are all required to run an active interpreter session.
If I am understanding your question correctly,site is a module in Python. A module is a file containing Python definitions and statements. In order to use the functions (for ex: exit() or quit(), you need to import the site module as those respective functions are defined in there.The Python interpreter is the program that reads and executes Python code. This includes source code, pre-compiled code, scripts - in this case you reference, you would need to import the site module into your current Python interpreter session, in order to use say exit() or quit() in that given session.So, the process of this particular question would be:* Activate the Python interpreter by typing into your respective terminal the version of Python you have installed on your computer, ex. python3.* In the Python interpreter, type import siteHope that helps Hwan.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/site.html
