Natural Text
Is an if statement an expression or simply a statement? And can someone define the two? I've heard it as a conditional expression, but that just confuses me as to why it's generally called an if statement rather than an expression.
You are confusing two different things. Python code is made up of statements. Statements can contain expressions, and expressions produce a result. Expressions can be composed out of more expressions, expressions can't contain statements.There is such a thing as an if statement. An if statement controls the flow of the program (different suites are executed based on the outcome of a test expression):There is also such a thing as a conditional expression; this produces a result, based on the constituent components (one of two expressions contained within is evaluated and its result returned, based on the condition expression in the middle):These two concepts are distinct; one is a statement (a top-level component of the language), the other an expression (so produces a result). They have closely related syntax (both use if as a keyword, the keyword else is required in a conditional expression, optional in an if statement), both evaluate a condition (if statements can evaluate more), but that's where their relationship ends.Or, to emphasise the differences some more:The suites in an if statement can hold more statements. You can use an if statement to pick between two function definitions, or two classes, or choosing what to import. You can't do that in an expression, because an expression can't contain a statement.A conditional expression can be part of a larger expression, while you can't put statements in an expression. So you can use a conditional expression to fine-tune an expression.
Example of an if statementExample of a conditional expression: the part right from the =These are two completely different language constructs, but here they achieve the same.The conditional expression here is more compact than the if-statement.But if conditional expressions get more complicated, they tend to become hard to read and debug, e.g.:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#the-if-statement
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#conditional-expressions
