Natural Text
Here is the lesson i am trying to do: "Create a program that reads all of the numbers stored in a file and calculates the total (sum) then displays the value as total points to screen.  Next, have the program calculate the average score then display the value as percent score to screen.  Next, make sure the program handles IOError and ValueError exceptions. I have tried about a dozen different ways using loops but cannot get anything to work. The only way i can make it work is by doing it like this: Here's the best I could come up with:This is what i get for the output:    78.00,    171.00,    256.00,    356.00,    437.00,    513.00,    607.00,    684.00,    Non-numeric data found in the file.If anyone wants to show me an example of how to use a loop to do the addition i'd be very grateful. The numbers from the file are: 78938510081769477 However, using 1-8 will do the trick. Any and all help is appreciated. I'm very new to this so I'm sure there is a much easier way to do it then what I've been trying. I've tried going off examples fROm the book I'm using and none work even though I'm copying them word for word. I've tried video examples as well and even though I copy everything exactly I still could not get loops to work. Super frustrating. Here's an example i tried to use but didn't work: the numbers will just be 1,2,3 for simplicity. These are in a .txt file called 06_tipsso that should work right? It doesn't for me.There were a bunch of similar of examples I tried but zero worked, so if anyone wants to provide me with the answer to my problem that'd be awesome, thanks :)    
Here's a basic example to get you started. Instead of hard-coding how many numbers will be read from the file, you could read all the lines in the file with file.readlines() which returns a list, and lists have the length method:The exception handling may need to be much more verbose, especially if the numbers in the file end up being various datatypes like float, but as for the numbers in your example, int() will work.
I do not know how your file looks like but if your numbers are separated by new lines(\n) then you can use thissum - sums up the list map - changes the numbers from string to intfilter - takes out any empty strings (I was getting quite a few)
Try this snippet:Hope it helps!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html
