Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:re.findall behaves weird                    2 answers                The end goal I have is to input a block of text (multiple lines) which contains domains and output just a list of domains. Example input:The output I want in this case:Eventually I found out that the best tool for this purpose is re.findall() and tried to do it this way:And in the output I see that it matched all the domains but the result looks like this:If that's relevant, here is the regex I use:I googled a variety of keywords, tested my regex with pythex.org and learned about a term "match captures" and that it has to do something with "capture groups", but all the advice I found here with using group appears to not be compatible with findall, but if I try to use search or match it only works for the first line and prints the whole line instead of just the match (looks like rambling but I didn't document my wanderings so I don't remember what exactly I've tried). Also intuitively it seems like a workaround to use cycles and match line by line when there is a tool that matches the whole block. Problem is, I don't know how to use it.I'm not looking for someone to write the code for me but I'm really lost at this point. Is there a way to use findall and output just nicely formatted matches?
The parenthesis you have in your regex create capturing groups, just remove them:Here is a demonstration.
Just don't capture the groups:The ?: at the beginning of the group says "don't capture me".And as per the docs if there are no capturing groups it returns a list of strings which matched the pattern.
The solution using str.split() and re.split() functions:The output:
You don't need to use regex for this, instead use split() :Explanation:First you can remove extra spaces from the string and then split it with single space and provide the desired index -4
If you still want to use that regex, you should retrieve every 'entire match'. It can be done with regex.search(). This documentation will help you. It returns a match object for the first match and its group(0) is entire match. Documentation here. So below is full code based on your regex.
In your case, all websites were wrapped by '-', so try this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.findall
