Natural Text
I'm using pythons ftplib to try and retrieve files off a remote server (practice project). I've had no issues sending files but getting an error when trying to retrieve. I'm using python 3. This is my code:This is the error I get:Any idea what's causing the error?
ftplib raises an error if the status code of the response starts with a '5'.  That means the server is returning a 5xx error:0.5.1 500 Internal Server ErrorThe server encountered an unexpected condition which prevented it from  fulfilling the request.10.5.2 501 Not ImplementedThe server does not support the functionality required to fulfill the  request. This is the appropriate response when the server does not  recognize the request method and is not capable of supporting it for  any resource.10.5.3 502 Bad GatewayThe server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, received an invalid  response from the upstream server it accessed in attempting to fulfill  the request.10.5.4 503 Service UnavailableThe server is currently unable to handle the request due to a  temporary overloading or maintenance of the server. The implication is  that this is a temporary condition which will be alleviated after some  delay. If known, the length of the delay MAY be indicated in a  Retry-After header. If no Retry-After is given, the client SHOULD  handle the response as it would for a 500 response.10.5.5 504 Gateway TimeoutThe server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, did not receive a  timely response from the upstream server specified by the URI (e.g.  HTTP, FTP, LDAP) or some other auxiliary server (e.g. DNS) it needed  to access in attempting to complete the request.10.5.6 505 HTTP Version Not SupportedThe server does not support, or refuses to support, the HTTP protocol  version that was used in the request message. The server is indicating  that it is unable or unwilling to complete the request using the same  major version as the client, as described in section 3.1, other than  with this error message. The response SHOULD contain an entity  describing why that version is not supported and what other protocols  are supported by that server.According to the ftp docs:FTP.retrbinary(command, callback[, maxblocksize[, rest]])  Retrieve a  file in binary transfer mode. command should be an appropriate   RETR  command: 'RETR filename'.But you wrote this:which will produce something like this:You need to add a space after 'RETR'.Create your own ftp server with pythonBy the way, you can write a short python program that will act as an ftp server.  First install the module pyftpdlib:If you only have one version of python on your system, you can just write:If you have more than one version of python on your computer, substitute the correct version number for 3.4.  The version number you specify is the python version where the pyftpdlib module will install. Here is what an ftp server looks like in python:pyftpdlib docs and tutorial here.add_user() and permissions described here.Then, you can create a directory for your server:Put the code above into the file my_ftp_server.py. Then add some files to the ftp_server directory that you want to practice 'downloading'.  Then start up the server by running my_ftp_server.py.In another terminal window, switch directories to the directory containing your python program:Then make some minor changes to your ftp client program:Here's a sample run of your ftp client program:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#format-examples
