Natural Text
I was tasked with writing a script that has a user enter a list of numbers and having the script add each number in that list to get a sum. I was able to write the script, however I am having trouble when I enter an integer with more then one digit. Here is my code and working script:When I run the script and input (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9) it prints outBut when I add the number 10 to the end of the list I receive this as outputI know that the sum of the numbers 1 through 10 equals 55, not 46. Is there a way for me to write this script without having Python turn 10 into 1, 0. I want to be able to have the user enter any type of integer and have it print out the correct sum.
You shouldn't be converting a comma-delimited string into integers like that at all. Your algorithm in particular starts the process by removing all the commas, which makes it impossible to tell one number from the next.Instead, use str.split() to simply split the string into a list on the given delimiter:Additionally, you can find the sum of this map object (no need to turn it into a list) with the built-in sum() function:
Use str.split() here.I think use return instead of print is a good idea.Demo:
Here is your corrected code:The problem was that your numList1 = list(n.join((i) for i in nList if i.isalnum())) was scanning each character. The code I posted above splits the array at each comma, turns the numbers into integers and the sums them up.
nList is a string, and strings are sequences of charactersHere you iterate through the string processing each character individually.  You separated each character which is why "10" became "1" and "0".Since you are entering each number separated by a comma, try splitting on comma instead.If the input is also surrounded by parentheses then you'll need to remove them before converting to int.
Actually, if you are using Python 2, your script can be boiled down to:This is because input, in Python 2, already converts the input from a string into a list of integers.If you want to take a string as input, and then convert it into a list of integers, you would use raw_input (or input in Python 3):This expects input like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 (without the brackets).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.split
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#sum
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.split
