Natural Text
How do I stop the looping if the value of ?The loops print a pair of numbers in a range from  to , but when it hit the  value the loop prints a reverse pair of numbers that I don't need it to.
What you're think you are asking for is the  command, but what you're actually looking for is removal of duplication.Your program lacks some clarity. For instance:These two things are doing essentially the same thing, which can be written more cleanly with a list comprehension (in the REPL):Your line:... will infinitely loop if you find a match. You should just remove it.  means "while y is true", and any value there will evaluate as true.This reduces your program to the following:Testing this in the REPL it seems correct based on the logic of the code:But it's possible that for  you want only one of  and . However, this has nothing to do with breaking your loop, but the fact that what you're attempting to do has two valid values when  and  don't equal each other. This is demonstrated by the second test case, where  is a repeated value, but if you broke the for loop on  you would not get that second set of values.One way we can account for this is by reordering when work is done:And we see a correct result:Or, the test case you provided in comments. Note the lack of duplicates:Some takeaways:Break out functions that are doing the same thing so you can reason more easily about it.Name your variables in a human-readable format so that we, the readers of your code (which includes you) understands what is going on.Don't use loops unless you're actually looping over something. , , etc. only need to be used if you're planning on going over a list of things.When asking questions, be sure to always include test input, expected output and what you're actually getting back.The current best-practice for ing strings is to use the  function, to make it really clear what you're printing.
The  command will break out of the loop. So a line like this:should do what you want.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#list-comprehensions
