Natural Text
My coursework is to create Tic Tac Toe in Python, my tutor helped me get it working in 2.7 however It needs to be in 3.5.Firstly in 2.7 the code below prints a 3x3 list, however in 3.5 it just prints the list downwards not 3x3. my tutor said maybe put  at the end but that also doesn't work.second problem is on 2.7 it allows me to continue to input numbers till the board is filled with X or O, on 3.5 it only allows to input once and then the program ends? etc.
 changed from statement to a function in Python 3.x. To print a statement without newline, you need to pass  parameter (You can use the  as a function in Python 2.7 if you put  at the beginning of the code): returns a string in Python 3.x. (does not evaluate the input string). You need to convert the value into  every where you used :Alternatively, instead of comparing the input with integer literal  or , compare the input string with strings: ,  without converting the string into integer. (But this requires you to use  in Python 2.7 instead of ) should be called: . Otherwise, nothing is printed.
I assume  is something like . That means you have an easy way of printing this with a single  call.This joins each row into a new string, producing each row as part of a generator. This generator is unpacked with  and sent to , where each row is separated by a newline.For your second issue, the problem is simple: you cast  for the first , but not for the subsequent ones. However, this is the sort of thing you should be doing with a loop. It'll prevent exactly this kind of bug. If you find yourself writing lots of code with Ctrl+V, you're doing something wrong. If each block is slightly different, with an incremented number, you would do that with something like , which allows you to execute the same code with an incremented number on each iteration.However, I'd recommend a simple  loop that checks if the game is complete:You would then write appropriate functions to request move coordinates, input moves into the board, and check if the game is complete yet.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#print
