Natural Text
I'd like to use the  exception in the  module in Python, but I can't figure out how to use it. The signature says that it should be called as , but I can't figure out what  should be. I think it should be some part of the parser object, but I couldn't find any documentation for it.
From the source documentation:ArgumentError: The exception raised by ArgumentParser objects when there are errors with the parser's actions. Errors raised while parsing the command-line are caught by ArgumentParser and emitted as command-line messages.The  parameter of the constructor is the  object from which the exception is raised. Usually there is no need to raise it outside of an  subclass, and when subclassing it, there is no need to raise it explicitly; you usually raise  (or whatever is appropriate) instead.Float values between 0 and 1In regards to your comment, that you only want to accept floating point values between 0 and 1. For this you should use the ability to define custom types. You can do it for example like this:Note that this is also safe against non-floats as  will raise a  for non-floats which also triggers an invalid type error by the  module.  is just a way to specify a custom error message.Mutually exclusive parametersFor mutually exclusive parameters, you should use .Parameter dependencyParameter dependency isn’t really something that should be done by the argument parser. For semantic details, you should instead simply do it yourself:You can use  to raise custom error message which will interrupt the program and print to the console.But of course in such a basic situation it would make a lot more sense just to implicitly guess  if possible.
While  is what most people probably want, it is also possible to use argparse.ArgumentError() (as the question asks.)  You need a reference to the argument, like the  in the example below:This will result in output like the one below:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html#argparse.ArgumentParser.error
