Natural Text
Studying Tkinter and I've only found tutorials on Tkinter without OOP, but looking at the Python.org documentation it looks like it's all in OOP. What's the benefit of using classes? It seems like more work and the syntax looks night and day from what I've learned so far. 
This is going to be a really generic answer and most of the answers to this will be opinionated anyways. Speaking of which,the answer will likely be downvoted and closed because of this.Anyways... Let's say you have a big GUI with a bunch of complicated logic sure you could write one huge file with hundreds, if not thousands of lines, and proxy a bunch of stuff through different functions and make it work. But, the logic is messy.What if you could compartmentalize different sections of the GUI and all the logic surrounding them. Then, takes those components and aggregate them into the sum which makes the GUI?This is exactly what you can use classes for in Tkinter. More generally, this is essentially what you use classes for - abstracting things into (reusable - instances) objects which provide a useful utility.Example:An app I built ages ago with Tkinter when I first learned it was a file moving program. The file moving program let you select the source / destination directory, had logging capabilities, search functions, monitoring processes for when downloads complete, and regex renaming options, unzipping archives, etcetera. Basically, everything I could think of for moving files.So, what I did was I split the app up like this (at a high level)1) Have a main which is the aggregate of the components forming the main GUIAggregates were essentially a sidebar, buttons / labels for selection various options split into their own sections as needed, and a scrolled text area for operation logging + search.So, the main components were split like this:2) A sidebar which had the following components Section which contained the options for monitoring processesSection which contained options for custom regular expressions or premade ones for renaming filesSection for various flag such as unpacking3) A logging / text area section with search functionality build in + the options to dump (save) log files or view them.That's a high level description of the "big" components which were comprised from the smaller components which were their own classes. So, by using classes I was able to wrap the complicated logic up into small pieces that were self contained. Granted, you can do the same thing with functions, but you have "pieces" of a GUI which you can consider objects (classes) which fit together. So, it just makes for cleaner code / logic.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/tk.html
