Natural Text
I am using Python v2.x Windows 64bit.The question is, I would like to extract a number (102) from a list, but I can only get a part of if.Here is a list: How to extract the speed of LeftWheel_Speed (102)?I tried , but what I get is ‘’ rather than ‘’.
Using  and a regex pattern, you can extract the integer value from the string.Here,  will return a match if data[9] has any decimal characters. Then retrieving this decimal characters using  and finally convert them to integer, using  built-in method
Use  to get a subset of them.Another thing you can do is, if you want to get a single integer from a string, is something along the lines of (python2.x):In Python3, filter returns a  which is an iterable. You can turn it into a list and join them for the same functional result.Note that this does not take into account separated numbers. For example,  will return . If you want them separated, you will need to use something a bit more clever.Again, in python3, map returns a , so you just have to convert it to a list.
If all the items in the list that contain a single  can be considered key-value pairs, you can turn the data into a dictionary. That makes it easy to access the values that you are interested in.
at index 9 in the list the element is a string , [-1] will display the  character, and thus [-2] will display the .  A string in python is list type, so you are looking at the second to last character. you need to split the string for each data element like:which first splits the string into 2 strings at the comma and print , but beware it still contains the  character which you might want to remove: will slice off the last character of the string (which is a list so you can do list slicing)EDIT: as commented below,  would be a more complete answer to removing special characters as it would remove them all
You can split it on ',' and display the second string 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.strip
https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#module-string
