Natural Text
I need to learn Python to do some data manipulation. When I read the documents, the documents out there are written in such a great skill so that I get very frustrated with some hidden message. For instance:in official Python Documents: random.sample(population, k)What is population? What type of it? According to the following, it seems that it is a list? So, is it the only valid type that the functions receive?in official Numpy Documents: numpy.random.random_sampleThe title is numpy.random.random_sample(size=None), and the following paragraph said that size: int or tuple of ints, optionalOutput shape. If the given shape is, e.g., (m, n, k), then m * n * k samples are drawn.What does it mean? So, there are actually 2 parameters, 1st one is size, and the 2nd one is the shape and it is optional? So if I want to pass in 2 parameters, should I write random.random_sample(5,[m,n,k]) or random.random_sample(5, m, n k)?These documents are very brief and the author seems very shy to demo the usage of the library. It seems that they always try to hide something from us. I wonder if there are some Python customs that I should learn to understand all these magic? 
The type of the population being sampled is, roughly, "iterable". I assume the underlying implementation is doing reservoir sampling, which requires only that the data can be passed through once. You can pass in a tuple if you like.The size parameter may be either an integer or a "shape" (3-tuple) conforming to the docs. The three components of the shape will be multiplied together to give the size. Thus, the function accepts only a single argument.Python is not statically typed, so there is no fixed type that a particular parameter "must" have, and the called function is free to treat different inputs differently.There are two examples of calling the function present on the numpy documentation page you linked.I don't see anything wrong with using a simple loop and a call to a random number generator. There's probably a library function, but that would only make the difference between two easy lines of your code and one. No big deal.
Consult the tutorial in the docs, these are basic things you have to be clear about before going further. Q1. Get familiar with duck typing. It's one of the core things in dynamically typed languages like python, ruby etc. It's a duck as long as it quacks. So here the parameter can be any sequence or set.Q2. As long as the receiving function can handle it, it's ok. So if you pass int it can handle it and it can also handle a tuple. So as far as semantics go, this is great.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.sample
