Natural Text
I use Spyder, with Python 2.7, on a windows 10. I was able to install the PyPDF2 package with a conda command from my prompt. I said installation complete. Yet, If I try to run a simple import command:I get the error:How can I fix this?
If you use python3 maybe
In my case, I was trying to import 'pyPdf2' instead of 'PyPDF2'. Observe the case.import PyPDF2is correct.
I had this problem too when I tried to import PyPDF2 like this:When running some simple script with , I would get an error like this:The solution was to also install pdfmerge, like this:
I faced the same problem. But, In my case,I previously installed Python3 separately from official website and was using without any issuesThen later I installed Anaconda package distribution software which itself has another Python3 installed in corresponding directory.  So, when I installed PyPDF2, it installed normally and while importing throws an error, because the base path of python3 was changed to be used with Anaconda.Then I opened Anaconda prompt and installed PyPDF2 there and tried to import. It worked!!Then I can use it from any command prompt in my Windows PC. Or else you can delete Anaconda and everything works normally. Its just a conflict of two pythons in my pc.Conclusion: Try any overlapping softwares in your PC(in my case Anaconda prompt) and try their CMD to install packages and import. If I wanted to install any package I have to go to Anaconda prompt and install it and importing that modules works anywhere without any error. So from now on wards I'm only using Anaconda prompt as my default installation prompt.
This is the case which I followed for python3. For python2 try with pip: 
I have multiple versions of Python installed on my Windows 8.1 machine (Python 2.7, 3.5, and 3.7). This created problems (confusion, I should say). You must therefore be very explicit when installing packages. Ex:INSTEAD OF: or And to upgrade pip, use:INSTEAD OF:Now, I can run python 3.7 with , and since I did  the  command works! Previously, since I had only done , the  command only worked if I ran , oddly enough. I think it has something to do with the fact that I installed Python 3.5 for all users, but Python 3.7 for only my user account, so the different  commands were placing the installed packages into different locations.See more here: https://docs.python.org/3/installing/index.htmlEx:On Windows, use the py Python launcher in combination with the -m switch:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/installing/index.html
