Natural Text
I've tried searching online for this question but because the word "object" is so common I get lots of unrelated results instead of what I'm looking for. I also looked through the official docs here: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html and didn't find any explanation for this. So please don't freak out when you read this question.Question:In Python while declaring a new class we extend the object class. For ex:Here we notice that  has a capital S because we are following camel case. However, the class that we are inheriting from - "" doesn't seem to follow this naming convention. Why is the object class in all lower case?
All Python's built-in types have lower case: int, str, unicode, float, bool, etc. The object type is just another one of these.
https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#class-names says:Class NamesClass names should normally use the CapWords convention.The naming convention for functions may be used instead in cases where  the interface is documented and used primarily as a callable.Note that there is a separate convention for builtin names: most  builtin names are single words (or two words run together), with the  CapWords convention used only for exception names and builtin  constants. [emphasis mine]All other classes should use the CapWorlds convention. As , , etc are built-in names, they follow this separate convention.(copied from my answer to If the convention in Python is to capitalize classes, why then is list() not capitalized? Is it not a class?)
If you go to the python interpreter and do this:You'll see object is a built-in type, the other built-in types in python are also lowercase . For instance:So it makes sense they are not lowercase, that way is quite easy to distinguish them from the other type of classes
The short and basic answer is, class is just a keyword used by the python interpreter to know when some thing needs to be seen as a class , like how you have "def" for defining a function. Its a keyword to describe what follows is all.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html
