Natural Text
I am working with . I encountered this line of code. What does this mean? At some other line, I foundNote:  is namespace assigned from .
 is a tuple of floats. A tuple is a kind of structure that is kinda like a list, but is immutable (i.e. you cannot modify any of its components once it has been created). But, like a list it can be indexed. In theory, some tuples have special names, for example a tuple of 2 is called a pair, a tuple of 3 is called a triplet etc (people don't necessarily call them that, but it helps a bit more to understand what a tuple is about).Because it's immutable, conceptually it is thought of more as a unique object, rather than as a collection of ones; for this reason it can also be validly used as a key to a dictionary (as opposed to lists which cannot).To create a tuple, you create a comma-separated sequence of objects inside parentheses, i.e.  (as opposed to brackets, i.e.  that you would to create a list).As for floats, the float  can also be written  for short.The  function then creates a range by calling it using the components of the tuple as arguments. In your particular case, it will create a range of numbers from 1 to 80+5, at increments of 5.A very cool use of tuples is that they can be expanded into a sequence of arguments to a function. e.g. if you had a tuple , and you wanted to call , you could just do  instead.
For the first code segment you are creating a tuple with 3 numbers 1, 80 and 5 in this. In the second code segment you are arranging a list with evenly spaced values from 1 to 81 (because you are adding a1 and a2) with intevals of 5. From the numpy helpnumpy.arange ([start, ]stop, [step, ]dtype=None)Return evenly spaced values within a given interval.Values are generated within the half-open interval [start, stop) (in other words, the interval including start but excluding stop). For integer arguments the function is equivalent to the Python built-in range function, but returns an ndarray rather than a list.EDIT As a.smiet pointed out the code creates a tuple and not a list. There are differences between the two as pointed out here
First line is just a tuple.Second line is using the  method which returns venly spaced values within a given interval:The parameters you have are using the tuple, .Where  and  so on...
Creates a tuple of 3 floats (1.0, 80.0 and 5.0).Created this list:Which, according to http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/generated/numpy.arange.html means thats 1.0 is a start, 85.0 (which is 80+5) is an end and 5.0 is a step (parameters of the function) for creating spaced values.
For the first one, it is a tuple of 3 items:For the second one, it generates a list (start: 1.0, end: 80.0 + 5.0, step: 5.0):


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
