Natural Text
I am trying to calculate the sum of size of various files. This is my script:But the values are not storing in variable. Can any one tell me what I am doing wrong. How can I modify script so that values are stored in variable and not as a output. 
You can capture the output of a command using getoutput function from commands as: 
On Unix, the return value is the exit status of the process encoded in  the format specified for wait(). Note that POSIX does not specify the  meaning of the return value of the C system() function, so the return  value of the Python function is system-dependent.On Windows, the return value is that returned by the system shell  after running command, given by the Windows environment variable  COMSPEC: on command.com systems (Windows 95, 98 and ME) this is always  0; on cmd.exe systems (Windows NT, 2000 and XP) this is the exit  status of the command run; on systems using a non-native shell,  consult your shell documentation.https://docs.python.org/2/library/os.html#os.systemThe problem is that you're using exit-codes rather than stdout data as your "values".You're probably looking to use subprocess.Popen for instance. Or just simply code the solution manually by opening the files.Try using https://docs.python.org/3/library/gzip.html
os.system return the exit status of the command not the output of the command. To capture the output of a command you should look into the subprocess module.However it is probably better to use other python modules/methods to do that as suggested by other as it is preferable to do things directly in Python.
The uncompressed file size is stored in the last 4 bytes of the gzip file. This function will return the size of the uncompressed file, i.e. the "gunzipped" size:On large files this is much faster than reading all of the uncompressed data and counting it's length because the whole file does not need to be decompressed.Fitting this into your code:
You can use the os module to get the file size. Try this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/gzip.html
