Natural Text
I was doing a fresh installation for Python 2.7.9 and 3.4.3 on Win7 X64 today, and I found that there is no Script folder in Python27 and Python34 folder as first child level folder, but there is one in Tools. However, I couldn't find pip within that Script folder, although pip should be installed with Python by default. The other I was doing the same installation for my other PC and laptop, there was Script folder (as first level child folder in Python27 and Python34) containing pip. So what is going on? how to install pip and maybe other useful scripts this way?[EDIT] I tried python -m ensurepip in Python34. I got the following errors:[EDIT] The problem is due to multiple null Registry keys in HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE that make read_windows_registry() in mimetypes.py searches failed. Here is the post that leads to the solution:Python ‘pip’ and Windows registry corruption thanks 
If you used the PSF (python.org) .msi Windows installers, pip (and dependencies) should be installed in pythonxy/Lib/site-packages for 3.4.0+ and 2.7.9+.  There should also be pythonxy/Scripts containing about 5 .exes.  This is the last part of the install process.  A command prompt window should briefly appear. Perhaps you did not have [ ] install pip checked when doing the installs (although this should have been checked by default).  Perhaps there was an error that you missed.In any case, you should have pythonxy/Lib/ensurepip/* present for both 2.7 and 3.4 and you should be able to run this module now.  In Command Prompt, try python -m ensurepip in both .../python27 and .../python34.
This problem is a official bug: Issue23604 .I had encountered the same problem, and fixed it successfully using the method inSwarley's Blog.
Had the same issue, reinstalling didn't help.Finally fixed it by running python -m ensurepip as administrator.
Resolved by installing Python 2.7.13https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-2713/
Windows 10. I had this issue while installing Python 2.7 into C:/Program Files/Python27 .. I think in this case it was a path issue. Fix was to do an install into C:/Python27, copy the Scripts folder from that installation to the installation in C:/Program Files/Python27. Everything else (including the paths to Python and Scripts) was fine. 
I ran into the same issue today while trying to install Python 2.7.13 in my computer; after some investigation I realized that v.3.60 ("Anaconda") was already present (it came along with Microsoft Visual Studio 2017, which I've installed a couple weeks ago).I suspected of some path mismatch in the registry, so I tried removing both Python v. 3.60 and 2.17, and cleaning up the Registry by deleting the HKCU\Software\Python key (which, due to some reason, was still present).After this, I was able to correctly install version 2.7.13, and this time the \scripts folder is present, with all the expected contents.I don't know if installing v. 3.6 again would cause any problem: I'm not going to try this for the time since I'm currently developing for v.2.7.Hope this can be of some help, anyway.Max - ItalyEDIT:I've made some further investigation and think I've discovered the reason why (in my case), the \Scripts folder was missing: the path where I was going to install Python is in virtual drive.In my computer I only have one partition (C:), and i've mapped a folder (C:\Development) as D:, then I tried to install Python on D:\Python27; apparently this is not "good" and causes some problem in the installer.After discovering that, I tried installing to the real path, and now everything seems to be OK.Max.
Guess what? In case you have NetBeans (or probably GlassFish) installed, then it could break installation for pip!Details: there's a bug in NetBeans installer that could sometimes break the Windows registry in a way that's not expected by other installers.@J3soon's answer was close, but Swarley's blog post haven't fixed the problem in my environment, because it wasn't a null character but was another kind of registry corruption.And here's how I got rid of the issue. Run the following PowerShell script:It will write the registry key names to the output. In case it prints an error, take the one last key it printed and remove that from the registry (using PowerShell or regedit or whatever tool you prefer).After that, reinstall Python, and it should install pip as intended.
Based on a combination of whats here, and what I found elsewhere, here is how I fixed it:Uninstall whatever is installed already.Go to regedit and HKLM/SOFTWARE/Python and delete the whole python section.Reinstall PythonThis installed with the scripts folder this time.Hope this helps someone.
I am using python 3.6.2 and faced a similar issue of missing scripts folder(also pip script) in python folder. I have done following things to add scripts folder again to python.Goto - Control Panel\All Control Panel Items\Programs and Features      then look for python program and try to uninstall it. A pop window       will appear which shows the following image.Image Python Try to REPAIR the installed program that should fix the issue. Otherwise click on MODIFY and tick on pip check box and Add Python to environment variables checkbox, then install it. This should fix the issue.
Even I was facing this issue. I solved it by doing the following steps:Uninstall python. (you can use the installer(python-2.7.xx.msi) to perform the uninstall. Select the option 'Remove Python'on double clicking the installer.)Edit the environment variable 'Path', and remove the python directory path. ( To change the environment variable, right click on 'This PC', click properties, click 'Advanced System Properties' ->Environment Variables)Remove the environment variable 'Python Path' if present.Now reinstall python. It will work !!! 
Actually Scipts folder will not create after installing python, you have to manually create this folder and then install pip, then you can find the required files in this directory.
I had also faced the same problem which i managed to solve. The problem is when you install the python in default configuration then it installs the python folder in the "c:\user\Appdata......" which is lengthy and hard to find . To avoid it first uninstall  the python 3.7 completely from the system from the control panel ->uninstall program. Then install it again with the option " customize installation". On the next page change the default location to C:/Python/Python37-32 and select the required check boxes and click install. This should solve your problem. 
It is permission issue. I have both python 2 and 3 installed under C:\Program Files\python\2.7.16C:\Program Files\python\3.7.2Python 2 installer is msi, so there is no run as admin option when install itPython 3 installer is exe, there is run as admin option.As the results, python 2 installed without scripts and pip.exe and python 3 installed successfully.To fix this, simply give the full permission to everyone on C:\Program Files\python\ and install python 2 again. then change the permission back.That's it.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/installing/
