Natural Text
This first section of code is from my file "othello_game_logic.py" Its the module I used to create the game logic for the game of Othello. My current goal is to create a graphical user interface(gui) for the game of othello, using my already created logic. This class GameState represents an entire game of othello.This next section is from a new module in which i will be coding the graphical user interface. I am doing this using tkinter.It produces and error message saying that a._valid_move and a._player_turn do not exist. However it does recognize the global attributes such as a.columns. Why is this?
Welcome to SO. Your question falls into the category of "why isn't this code working?" which is covered in the Help Center section on Asking "What topics can I ask here?"Questions seeking debugging help ("why isn't this code working?") must include the desired behavior, a specific problem or error and the shortest code necessary to reproduce it in the question itself. Questions without a clear problem statement are not useful to other readers. See: How to create a Minimal, Complete, and Verifiable example.In particular you should read the section on "How to create a Minimal, Complete, and Verifiable example".From your post I'm inferring that you are either new to programming or new to Python, and there are couple of things that you can do on your own perhaps to answer your question:RTFM: Specifically the Python Tutorial section on classes. In this section you will learn about instantiation, what __init__() does and how to use it properly.Learn how to debug. Many issues similar to yours can be solved by using a debugger. Python pdb is a simple debugger that lets you step through your code line by line, set breakpoints, interrogate arguments and variables and execute arbitrary code in the the current scope to test behavior.I was able to get the desired outcome from your code by removing the extra __init__:Note I also added extra information to someone reading my post, such as the definitions of all methods, so that there would be less questions about what my code actually does. Hope this helps, good luck in your coding adventures and please next time try to improve the quality of the questions that you post on SO, and you will get far more positive replies.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html
