Natural Text
I have data stored in a shelf file created with python 2.7When I try to access the file from python 3.4, I get an error:I'm still able to access the shelf with no problem in python 2.7, so there seems to be a backward-compatibility issue. Is there any way to directly access the old format with the new python version?
The shelve module uses Python's pickle, which may require a protocol version when being accessed between different versions of Python.Try supplying protocol version 2:According to the documentation:Protocol version 2 was introduced in Python 2.3. It provides much more efficient pickling of new-style classes. Refer to PEP 307 for information about improvements brought by protocol 2.This is most likely the protocol used in the original serialization (or pickling).
As I understand now, here is the path that lead to my problem:The original shelf was created with Python 2 in WindowsPython 2 Windows defaults to bsddb as the underlying database for shelving, since dbm is not available on the Windows platformPython 3 does not ship with bsddb. The underlying database is dumbdbm in Python 3 for Windows.I at first looked into installing a third party bsddb module for Python 3, but it quickly started to turn into a hassle. It then seemed that it would be a recurring hassle any time I need to use the same shelf file on a new machine. So I decided to convert the file from bsddb to dumbdbm, which both my python 2 and python 3 installations can read.I ran the following in Python 2, which is the version that contains both bsddb and dumbdbm:So far it looks like the dumbdbm.shelf files came out ok, pending a double-check of the contents.
Edited: You may need to rename your database. Read on...Seems like pickle is not the culprit here. shelve relies also in anydbm (Python 2.x) or dbm (Python 3) to create/open a database and store the pickled information.I created (manually) a database file using the following:andIn both cases, it creates the same kind of database (may be distribution dependent, this is on Debian 7):anydbm can open database3.db without problems, as expected:Notice the lack of .db when specifying the database name, though. But dbm chokes on database2, which is weird:unless I change the name of the name of the database to database2.db:So, I suspect a regression on the dbm module, but I haven't checked the documentation. It may be intended :-?NB: Notice that in my case, the extension is .db, but that depends on the database being used by dbm by default! Create an empty shelf using Python 3 to figure out which one are you using and what is it expecting.
I don't think it's possible to use a Python 2 shelf with Python 3's shelve module. The underlying files are completely different, at least in my tests.In Python 2*, a shelf is represented as a single file with the filename you originally gave it.In Python 3*, a shelf consists of three files: filename.bak, filename.dat, and filename.dir. Without any of these files present, the shelf cannot be opened by the Python 3 library (though it appears that just the .dat file is sufficient for opening, if not actual reading).@Ricardo Cárdenes has given an overview of why this may be--it's likely an issue with the underlying database modules used in storing the shelved data. It's possible that the databases are backwards compatible, but I don't know and a quick search hasn't turned up any obvious answers. I think it's likely that some of the possible databases implemented by dbm are backwards-compatible, whereas others are not: this could be the cause of the discrepancy between answers here, where some people, but not all, are able to open older databases directly by specifying a protocol. *On every machine I've tested, using Python 2.7.6 vs Pythons 3.2.5, 3.3.4, and 3.4.1


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html
