Natural Text
im a beginner with python coding language, and I'm having trouble writing a simple program in python that i can run in my terminal.  Here is the program so far.  This is what i get in my terminal when i run the code.  or Basically, in my function, if i select X, i want Player to be X, and Computer to be O (or when i select O, i want Player to be O, and Computer to be X).  However, when i print the variable, i get * and *.  How can i fix this, so that my attempted result from my if elif statement has my desired affect.  
The values of Player and Computer you are assigning are local to the function. You should return the values from your function, so that they are accesible in the main scope:For more details see What are the rules for local and global variables in Python?:In Python, variables that are only referenced inside a function are  implicitly global. If a variable is assigned a new value anywhere  within the function’s body, it’s assumed to be a local. If a variable  is ever assigned a new value inside the function, the variable is  implicitly local, and you need to explicitly declare it as ‘global’.Though a bit surprising at first, a moment’s consideration explains  this. On one hand, requiring global for assigned variables provides a  bar against unintended side-effects. On the other hand, if global was  required for all global references, you’d be using global all the  time. You’d have to declare as global every reference to a built-in  function or to a component of an imported module. This clutter would  defeat the usefulness of the global declaration for identifying  side-effects.You could also make the variable global but this is in general considered bad practice because it opens the door to unexpected side effects.
Your Player, Computer variables are outside inputplayerletter() function so you are storing the value in local variables.To solve this make your function to use your global variables using:Final code:Hope it helps


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/faq/programming.html#what-are-the-rules-for-local-and-global-variables-in-python
