Natural Text
Give a method that sums all the numbers in a . The method should be able to   skip elements that are not numbers. So,  should be  but  should also be . How can I accomplish this?What I have already tried so far:
You can do this with a simple one liner:Or, if you need it inside a function:Additionally, as noted in the comments, don't use names like  and  for your variables; *they will shadow they build-in names for the dictionary () and () types. You'll then need to explicitly  in order to use them as intended.But, let me explain. What  does is here is: a) It takes a function as its first argument:and then takes every element inside the list  (second argument) and evaluates whether it is  or  based on the function. b) Then,  will essentially filter out any objects inside list  that are not instances of  (i.e the function returns  for them). As a result, for a list like  filter is going to return  which will then be summed up by .Some Examples:Slight caveat: As is, this doesn't sum up  values, it drops them (and any other numeric types for that case). If you need that too, simply add the  type in the  function as so:Now, your function sums floats too:Add any other types as necessary in the  function to catch the cases that you need.A catch all case:As noted by @Copperfield you can check for objects that are instances of any number by utilizing the  abstract base class in the  module. This acts as a catch-all case for numeric values:Simpler and a bit faster, too:Additionally, as noted by @ShadowRanger, and since  might not be the most comfortable construct for new users, one could simply use a generator expression (which is also faster) with  to get the same exact result:
The Pythonic way is to do a try/except. While you could do this in a one liner, I prefer to break things out a bit to see exactly what is happening.If you want to include floating points, simply change the  to a . Floating points are anything with a decimal, among others.

use filter and isinstance like this

Output:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/numbers.html
