Natural Text
I have implemented the following save function in my program which allows the user to save as a JPEG file whatever he/she draws on the Tkinter canvas with the Turtle. How it is supposed to work is that it first captures the screen and Tkinter canvas and then creates a postscript file based on it. Then it converts that postscript file as a PIL (Python Imaging Library) readable file type, and then the PIL saves the converted file as a JPEG. My save function is shown below:However, whenever I run this save function, I get the error shown below:even though I already have GhostScript installed! I know this because I first installed it through the Disk Image located here and ran the installer. However, since that did not work, I then did this in Terminal: and since even that did not work, I then ran this in Terminal:I used 3 ways to install GhostScript and still keep getting the same error. Why is that and how else would I solve this issue?FYI: Just in case you need to know, my operating system is Mac OS 10.11.2 and my Python version is 3.5.1EDIT: So, as a comment once said, try to solve this using Homebrew. So, naturally I installed it (since I did not have Homebrew already installed). Then, upon successful installation, I ran . After a few kinks I solved, I was able to successfully install GhostScript (well, according to Homebrew anyways). Then I ran  and found out it was unlinked! ****Gasp**** Well, a fix is easy enough, just link it! So, that is just what I did, and after fixing a few other kinks, I was finally able to successfully execute . However, despite my heroic, bodacious attempts at fixing the error, it remained... Yep, despite my best efforts, the error in IDLE when I run my save function still occurs! Additionally, running  in Terminal returns:What is STILL going wrong? Why can't Python (or even Terminal) find ? EDIT # 2: Okay, so I have finally been able to install GhostScript using Homebrew. All I had to do was install xQuarts, which GhostScript apparently needs. HOWEVER, my initial issue is STILL not fixed!  now works in Terminal:But my save function STILL does not work in Python, and now I am SURE I have GhostScript installed! I still keep on getting this error in IDLE whenever I run my save function:What is still going wrong?EDIT # 3: Here is my Python script, just in case it is needed.-EDIT # 4 Removed-EDIT # 5: I have a small hunch this is important, so I am putting it out there. Whenever I run  in Terminal, I get warnings that are not important, but this one stands out to me for some reason. I really don't know why, but anyways, here it is:Maybe this is what is causing my issues? If so, how would I fix it?EDIT # 6: Apparently it works for others (both windows AND Mac), but still NOT FOR ME! I STILL keep on getting this error whenever I run my program's  function:It's REALLY weird because  WORKS in Terminal AND this:works in Python IDLE. But for some reason, Python Imaging Library (PIL) still CANNOT detect  (maybe because of its subprocess.Popen() function?). Why is that? I have xQuarts, GhostScript, and PIL all installed on my Macintosh, but I still get the error when I run my  function! Why? P.S. This is all occuring on Macintosh (OS 10.11.2), so answers from those proficient with Macintosh are preferred!-EDIT # 7 Removed-EDIT # 8: Okay, I have finally been able to PERMANENTLY (hopefully...) add  to my PATH (as you can see below):I added that path by running  and then entering:into the  file. However, I STILL keep getting that  in Python! Did I append  to my PATH the wrong way, or even in the wrong directory? If that is not the case, then why can't the Python Imaging Library STILL find ??EDIT # 9: Hurrah! Issue RESOLVED! The error does NOT appear anymore. All I had to do was REMOVE  from my Mac Path, and apparently add it instead to my PYTHONPATH, like so at the beginning of my program:Huzzah! It works! PIL can now find , and can save the canvas as  JPEG, although it is in a very low resolution, but that is an issue for another question. For now, I am just glad the initial issue is resolved and I can finally save the canvas as a JPEG (Thanks to @Copperfield!) :)
just a idea: checking in the code of PIL, it use the shutil module to find  doing  maybe you need to modify some environment variable until until that work? EDITtalking in the chat room, we find what appear to be the problem, and that is subprocess.Popen can't find , but we got stuck there. Any ideas??EDIT 2I found a posible solution, first I remove  from my path, and I try thisto make this work with your code the following changes I made: and testing it work fine.In your case that maybe is: is that don't work try with one of thisEDIT 3as this solution work, a more automatic version of this can be something like this:
Could not replicate on 10.11.2 with homebrew, same python version, using XQuartz 2.7.8 (http://www.xquartz.org). Found this too (https://discussions.apple.com/thread/1922974?tstart=0)
Looks like you're missing a dependency. Download homebrew and install ghostscript from that:... There are also options for it which may be obtained using :But the default install is often the most-tested.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/shutil.html?highlight=shutil.which#shutil.which
https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html?highlight=subprocess.popen#subprocess.Popen
