Natural Text
I have a sample Python class Now i know that in Java to make a class serializable we just have to extend Serializable and ovverride a few methods and life is simple. Though Python is so simplistic yet i cant find a way to serialize the objects of this class. This class should be serializable over network because the objects of this call goes to apache spark which distributes the object over network. What is the best way to do that.I also found this but dont know if it is the best way to do it.I also read Classes, functions, and methods cannot be pickled -- if you pickle an object, the object's class is not pickled, just a string that identifies what class it belongs to.So does that mean those classes cant be serialized ?PS: There would be millions of object of this class as the data is huge. So please provide 2 solution one the easiest and other the most efficient way of doing so.EDIT :For clarification i have to use this something likeNow how it is finally calledwhich throws exception
As long as the all arguments you pass to  (, , , , ) can be serialized there should be no need for any additional steps. If you experience any problems it most likely means you didn't properly distribute your modules over the cluster.While PySpark automatically distributes variables and functions referenced inside closures, distributing modules, libraries and classes is your responsibility. In case of simples classes creating a separate module and passing it via  should be just enough:
First, for your example pickle will work great. pickle doesn't serialize "functions", it only serializes "data" - so if you have the types you are trying to serialize on the remote script, i.e. if you have the type "bean" imported on the receiving end - you can use pickle or cpickle and everything will work.the mentioned disclaimer stated it doesn't keep the code of the class, meaning if you don't have it imported on the receiving end, pickle won't work for you.All cross-language serialization solutions (i.e. , ) will never provide the ability to transfer class "code" because there's no reasonable way to represent it. If you're using the same language on both ends (like here) there are way to get this to work - you could for example marshal the object, pickle the result, send it over, receive on receiving end, unpickle and unmarshal and you have an object with it's functions - this is in fact sending the code and -ing it on the receiving end..Here's a quick example based on your class for pickling object:test.pyrunning it:so you can see pickle works as long as you have the imported type..


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html#what-can-be-pickled-and-unpickled
