Natural Text
For this problem I am dealing with a big list,that it was imported from a CSV file, but let's sayI have a list like this:and I want to have another list with this form(the sum of all score for each student):any ideas how this can be done?I've been trying many ways, and I could not make it.I was stuck when there where more than 2 same names, my solution only kept the last 2 lines to add.I am new in python and programming in general.
If you are just learning Python I always recommend try to implement things without relying on external libraries.  A good starting step is to start by trying to break the problem up into smaller components:Remove the first entry (the column titles) from the input list.  You don't need it for your result.For each remaining entry:Convert every entry except the first to an integer (so you can add them).Determine if you have already encountered an entry with the same name (first column value).  If not: add the entry to the output list.  Otherwise: merge the entry with the one already in the output list (by adding values in the columns).One possible implementation follows (untested):The above is not as efficient as using a dictionary or importing a library that can perform the same operation in a couple of lines, however it demonstrates a few features of the language.  Be careful when working with lists though, the above modifies the input list (try un-commenting the print statement for the input list at the end).
Let us say you have Then, you can use Pandas ...If you are importing it from a cvs file, you can directly read the file using 
You could use better solution as suggested but if you'd like to implement yourself and learn, you can follow and I will explain in comments:To understand this code, you need to know about ,  operator, (, , , , ) built-ins and some handy modules,  and .You edited to add header which will break our code so we need to remove it  such that we need to pass  to  instead of . Hope it helps.
As a beginner I would consider turning your data into a simpler structure like a dictionary, so that you are just summing a list of list. Assuming you get rid of the header row then you can turn this into a dictionary:Now it should be relatively easy to loop over the dict and sum up the lists (you may want to look a  and  as a way to do that.
This is well suited for 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.Counter
