Natural Text
Please consider a code:What is the difference between the  and  variables and what is the point of , what's it's purpose ?
In your code, the  variable is what the user enters in response to your request for . It's their answer to your question. The  variable is the correct answer to your randomly generated question. What you want to do is check whether their  is the same as the expected  (which is why I called that variable  in my answer to your previous question).The reason for using  is that it evaluates an expression which is passed as a string. So for example if you pass "2*3" to  it will return 6.The documentation for  is here which is always a good place to start.Breaking down the line which is giving you trouble:Breaks down for an example where  is 4 and  is 7:The "4*7" is then converted by  from the string "4*7" to the source code  which is then calculated out to be .I think the difficulty you're having is seeing that there is a difference between "4*7" which is a string, and  which is a code statement. What  does is convert strings to statements which can then be executed as code.
Documentation says:eval(expression, globals=None, locals=None)The  argument is parsed and evaluated as a Python  expressionIn short, the string argument passed to  is executed as normal python instructions. For example:prints out  onto screen, as would be done when executing  instruction. Python interpreter simply tries and executes the string argument passed to  function.The argument to your eval function is , which is broken down to:convert  to string formconcat the operator to  which is string formconvert the  to string form and concat it to the previouse.g. if  is ,  is , and  is , then this makes the string , which is passed to  function and evaluated as . Then the evaluated value is stored in the variable . Finally  is compared to the answer provided by the user. If they match,  is stored in answer, otherwise , which is then checked to give the output of 'correct' or 'incorrect'


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#eval
