Natural Text
Please don't judge me.. I've only been working with Python for a month now.While laying in my bed I thought of making this and created it in a few minutes but I made to many else and if statements and my code just looks so messy, I kept adding things that weren't needed..(For fun :D)Anyways, here is my code.. If you could tell me how to use the "elif" statements properly that'd be awesome.(I'm still learning python)Question: I've tried using an elif statement multiple times and I keep getting an error. How do I fix this?
We can't debug code you haven't posted, and (as is to be expected - you are on a learning exercise here, and there's a lot to think about) your program structure isn't very helpful. For example, when the user enters non-matching passwords you tell them about it, but nevertheless continue to ask them for their username. Don't worry about this, you will soon learn how to fix it.Since you ask about the elif, it is basically a syntax abbreviation for else if that avoids going to multiple indentation levels. Suppose you wanted a value of '1' or '2' to take different actions, and to declare other values invalid. You could writeNote that the different actions are at different indentation levels. The more cases you have to consider, the more levels of indentation you have to introduce. So it's generally felt to be more readable to writeNow all the actions and decisions are at the same indentation levels. That's pretty much all there is to it. If you leave the else case off then you won't take any actions at all, so it's normally used to specify the default action, in this case raising an exception.PS: If you want to be sure the user has entered two matching passwords before you proceed, look at the while loop, which allows you to repeat a set of actions until some condition (in this case the passwords being equal) is true.
Here is an example if if/elif/else statement in python3:You can find more information here : https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.htmlEDIT:As a general remark, you should not define variable using capital letters (PEP convention: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/?)
So using ElifThough what is this error you're getting, we can't really help you without it. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html
