Natural Text
referring to this question here: LINKHow can I set up a config, that will only log my root script and my own sub-scripts? The question of the link asked for disabling all imported modules, but that is not my intention.My root setup:My sub-module exchangehandler.py:myapp.log:My problem is, that the log-file contains also a lot of information of the exchangelib-module, that is imported in exchangehandler.py. Either the imported exchangelib-module is configured incorrectly or I have made a mistake. So how can I reduce the log-output only to my logging messages?EDIT:An extract of the folder.py of the exchangelib-module. This is not anything that I have written:
The imported exchangelib module is not configured at all when it comes to logging. You are configuring it implicitly by calling logging.basicConfig() in your main module.exchangelib does create loggers and logs to them, but by default these loggers do not have handlers and formatters attached, so they don't do anything visible. What they do, is propagating up to the root logger, which by default also has no handlers and formatters attached.By calling logging.basicConfig in your main module, you actually attach handlers to the root logger. Your own, desired loggers propagate to the root logger, hence the messages are written to the handlers, but the same is true for the exchangelib loggers from that point onwards.You have at least two options here. You can explicitly configure "your" named logger(s):main moduleThe above is very simplified. To explicitly configure multiple named loggers, refer to the logging.config HowToIf you rather want to stick to just using the root logger (configured via basicConfig()), you can also explicitly disable the undesired loggers after exchangelib has been imported and these loggers have been created:If you don't know the names of the loggers to disable, logging has a dictionary holding all the known loggers. So you could temporarily do this to see all the loggers your program creates:Using the dict would also allow you to do sth. like this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html#configuring-logging
