Natural Text
I'm learning about lambda functions in python through tutorials online. I understand how it works but I came across an example that puzzles me (on this page https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_lambda.asp):I don't understand how "mydoubler" function works here. How does it take 11 as an argument when we didn't define it before.Thank you.
 is what  returns. It returns a lambda that accepts a single argument, .When you call on a function like this: , it is going to resolve to what is returned in that spot. So this is effectively the same as writing 
A  function is a small anonymous function. In your example You translate it as apply a function on each input element. It is quite obvious when an input is just a scalar, for exampleBut what do you expect when the input is an  or a ?
as Python documentation says, lambda is only anonymous functionLambda expressions (sometimes called lambda forms) are used to create anonymous functions. The expression lambda parameters: expression yields a function object.you can see it in here what's going on in your snippet of code is that your  function use  as a constant to new anonymous function that receive one parameter called  and return the multiplication of  with the .In your calling  value is , result by your call .when you call  you call your new anonymous function when  has value 
As per the lambda documentation in https://pythonreference.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docs/operators/lambda.htmllambda returns an anonymous function.In the above-mentioned example, lambda function is lambda a : a * n andthe lambda itself returns some anonymous function which must be something like But here, as we have already passed n=2 while calling myfun(), hence doing mydoubler(a) just returns a*2 (as here n=2) and hence the result.
Your example has two functions: the outer function  and the inner function . Normally you can call a  function directly:Or you can assign some variable to this function and call it through this variable:You can also define some outer function, which will return the inner  function:What is equivalent to:In the example above the variable  was declared inside  and in your case  is the parameter of , which is passed to the  function. The function  returns the function with  equal to the argument, which you pass to  by the function call. So the function call  returns the fuction . 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#lambda
