Natural Text
Is there a way to convert a string from uppercase, or even part uppercase to lowercase? For example, "Kilometers" → "kilometers".
Use  - For example:The official 2.x documentation is here: The official 3.x documentation is here: 
With Python 2, this doesn't work for non-English words in UTF-8. In this case  can help:
How to convert string to lowercase in Python?Is there any way to convert an entire user inputted string from uppercase, or even part uppercase to lowercase? E.g. Kilometers --> kilometersThe canonical Pythonic way of doing this is However, if the purpose is to do case insensitive matching, you should use case-folding:Here's why:This is a str method in Python 3, but in Python 2, you'll want to look at the PyICU or py2casefold - several answers address this here.Unicode Python 3Python 3 handles plain string literals as unicode:Python 2, plain string literals are bytesIn Python 2, the below, pasted into a shell, encodes the literal as a string of bytes, using .And  doesn't map any changes that bytes would be aware of, so we get the same string. In scripts, Python will object to non-ascii (as of Python 2.5, and warning in Python 2.4) bytes being in a string with no encoding given, since the intended coding would be ambiguous. For more on that, see the Unicode how-to in the docs and PEP 263Use Unicode literals, not  literalsSo we need a  string to handle this conversion, accomplished easily with a unicode string literal, which disambiguates with a  prefix (and note the  prefix also works in Python 3):Note that the bytes are completely different from the  bytes - the escape character is  followed by the 2-byte width, or 16 bit representation of these  letters:Now if we only have it in the form of a , we need to convert it to . Python's Unicode type is a universal encoding format that has many advantages relative to most other encodings. We can either use the  constructor or  method with the codec to convert the  to :Both methods convert to the unicode type - and same as the unicode_literal.Best Practice, use UnicodeIt is recommended that you always work with text in Unicode.Software should only work with Unicode strings internally, converting to a particular encoding on output.Can encode back when necessaryHowever, to get the lowercase back in type , encode the python string to  again:So in Python 2, Unicode can encode into Python strings, and Python strings can decode into the Unicode type.
You can do what Peter said, or if you want the user to input something you could do the below code:It will then automatically convert the string they typed into lowercase.Note:  was renamed to  in Python 3.x and above.
Also, you can overwrite some variables:If you use like this:It will work just when called.
Don't try this, totally un-recommend, don't do this:Output:Since no one wrote it yet you can use  (so uppercase letters will become lowercase, and vice versa) (and this one you should use in cases where i just mentioned (convert upper to lower, lower to upper)):Output:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html?highlight=str.lower#str.lower
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/unicode.html
