Natural Text
I know that Python is a dynamically typed language, and that I am likely trying to recreate Java behavior here. However, I have a team of people working on this code base, and my goal with the code is to ensure that they are doing things in a consistent manner. Let me give an example:When they instantiate a Company object, an empty list that holds locations is created. Now, with Python anything can be added to the list. However, I would like for this list to only contain Location objects:I'm doing this with classes so that the code is self documenting. In other words, "location has only these attributes". My goal is that they do this:Unfortunately, nothing is stopping them from simply doing , and nothing indicates to them that  should be a list of Location objects.What is the Pythonic way to enforce consistency when working with a team of developers?
An OOP solution is to make sure the users of your class' API do not have to interact directly with your instance attributes.MethodsOne approach is to implement methods which encapsulate the logic of adding a location.ExamplePropertiesAnother OOP concept you can use is a property. Properties are a simple way to define getter and setters for your instance attributes.ExampleSuppose we want to enforce a certain format for a  attributeNotice that the attribute  is still accessible and writable. While the underscore denotes what should be a private attribute, nothing is really private in Python.Final wordDue to Python's high introspection capabilities, nothing will ever be totally safe. You will have to sit down with your team and discuss the tools and practice you want to adopt.Nothing is really private in python. No class or class instance can  keep you away from all what's inside (this makes introspection  possible and powerful). Python trusts you. It says "hey, if you want  to go poking around in dark places, I'm gonna trust that you've got a  good reason and you're not making trouble."After all, we're all consenting adults here.--- Karl Fast
You could also define a new class  that make the safety checks. Something like this


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html
