Natural Text
I'd like to get PyYAML's loader to load mappings (and ordered mappings) into the Python 2.7+ OrderedDict type, instead of the vanilla dict and the list of pairs it currently uses.What's the best way to do that?
Update: In python 3.6+ you probably don't need OrderedDict at all due to the new dict implementation that has been in use in pypy for some time (although considered CPython implementation detail for now).Update: In python 3.7+, the insertion-order preservation nature of dict objects has been declared to be an official part of the Python language spec, see What's New In Python 3.7.I like @James' solution for its simplicity. However, it changes the default global yaml.Loader class, which can lead to troublesome side effects. Especially, when writing library code this is a bad idea. Also, it doesn't directly work with yaml.safe_load().Fortunately, the solution can be improved without much effort:For serialization, I don't know an obvious generalization, but at least this shouldn't have any side effects:
The yaml module allow you to specify custom 'representers' to convert Python objects to text and 'constructors' to reverse the process.
2018 option:oyaml is a drop-in replacement for PyYAML which preserves dict ordering. Both Python 2 and Python 3 are supported. Just pip install oyaml, and import as shown below:You'll no longer be annoyed by screwed-up mappings when dumping/loading.Note: I'm the author of oyaml.
2015 (and later) option:ruamel.yaml is a drop in replacement for PyYAML (disclaimer: I am the author of that package). Preserving the order of the mappings was one of the things added in the first version (0.1) back in 2015. Not only does it preserve the order of your dictionaries, it will also preserve comments, anchor names, tags and does support the YAML 1.2 specification (released 2009)The specification says that the ordering is not guaranteed, but of course there is ordering in the YAML file and the appropriate parser can just hold on to that and transparently generate an object that keeps the ordering. You just need to choose the right parser, loader and dumper¹:will give you:data is of type CommentedMap which functions like a dict, but has extra information that is kept around until being dumped (including the preserved comment!)
Note: there is a library, based on the following answer, which implements also the CLoader and CDumpers: Phynix/yamlloaderI doubt very much that this is the best way to do it, but this is the way I came up with, and it does work. Also available as a gist.
Update: the library was deprecated in favor of the yamlloader (which is based on the yamlordereddictloader)I've just found a Python library (https://pypi.python.org/pypi/yamlordereddictloader/0.1.1) which was created based on answers to this question and is quite simple to use:
On my For PyYaml installation for Python 2.7 I updated __init__.py, constructor.py, and loader.py. Now supports object_pairs_hook option for load commands. Diff of changes I made is below.
There is a PyYAML ticket on the subject opened 5 years ago. It contains some relevant links, including the link to this very question :) I personally grabbed gist 317164 and modified it a little bit to use OrderedDict from Python 2.7, not the included implementation (just replaced the class with from collections import OrderedDict).
here's a simple solution that also checks for duplicated top level keys in your map.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.7.html
