Natural Text
I am making a maths test where each question will be either adding, multiplying or subtracting randomly chosen numbers.  My operator will be chosen at random, however I cannot work out how to calculate with the operator.  My problem is here:How can I make it so the operator is used in a calculation.  For example, if the random numbers were two and five, and the random operator was '+', how would I code my program so that it would end up actually doing the calculation and getting an answer, so in this case it would be: Basically, how can I do a calculation to check to see if the answer is actually correct?My full code is below.Sorry if I have been unclear, thanks in advance
Use functions in a dictionary:Now you can map an operator in a string to a function:There are even ready-made functions for this is the operator module:Note that you need to be careful about using variable names! You used operator first to create a list of operators, then also use it to store the one operator you picked with random.choice(), replacing the list:Use separate names here:
You are looking for the eval function.  eval will take a string with math operators and compute the answer. In your final if statement check it like this...

Use the operator lib, creating  a dict with operators as keys and the methods as values.You  need to cast answer to int a string could never be equal to an int.In the code  random.choice(keys) will pick one of the three dicts keys * - or +, we do a lookup on the dict with operators[operator] i.e operators["*"] returns mul we can then call mul(n1,n2)  on the two random numbers.You also need to move the  number1 = random.randint(1, 20).. inside the while loop or you will end up asking the same questions and you can pass the string to input, you don't need to print.
For your specific case, instead of making the dictionary, I would just create a list of tuples with the operator string representation and the operator builtin function:Random.choice on your list will return a tuple that you can unpack into the operator str representation and the function that you can call.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/operator.html
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#dictionaries
