Natural Text
I'm actually trying to create ttk.Spinbox from tkinter.Spinbox. I can manipulate codes below like ttk.Scrollbar pattern. tkinter.Spinbox button gives an old look for my GUI that is why i want to ttk.Spinbox.Edit:I am using Python 3.4 on Windows 7 OS. I need a themed Spinbox widget. ttk.__init__ file has not Spinbox class/module. So, I open that file and wrote codes just like Scrollbar class given below.And codes that I placed into ttk.__init__.py file. It inherits from tkinter.Spinbox.The test result given below is satisfactory.But there is an indent before content of Spinbox Widgettkinter.Spinbox Widgetttk.Spinbox WidgetIs there something wrong? Why an indentation occurs?If you expand root window the ttk.Spinbox spreads with it and an indentation occurs. I guess it is due to columnconfigure but i need configuration for better look.
This appears to be a bug within Tk itself, and your Python code is simply exposing it.  I converted your example code into straight Tcl/Tk and ran it against both Tk-8.5.17 and Tk-8.6.3 (via TclKits), and the same issue is happening there, too:This is what the above code looks like when run:It appears that the problem code is in the vistaTheme.tcl file within the ttk subdirectory, in the nested code beginning with ttk::style layout TSpinbox:Specifically, if you remove the -sticky {} bit from Spinbox.textarea -expand 1 -sticky {} in the inner-most block, then it looks like the indentation goes away:I'd suggest reading through the Tcl/Tk bug wiki here, then open a bug with them here for this issue.  Wouldn't hold your breath, though.  Tcl/Tk releases don't happen very often, because it's a pretty mature and stable language.  If a fix is produced for Tcl/Tk, then you'll need to file a bug with the Python maintainers to get them to either update their internal copy of Tcl/Tk for the Windows releases or backport a fix.It might be possible to work around the problem in Python by using ttk's styles and configuring the Spinbox.textarea bit to unset the sticky attribute, however, I don't have an exact code snippet to do that at the moment.
Using python 3.4 on windows 7 I don't get the same indentation. Here is a demo:This yields the following:If you are getting an extra indent in the entry field area perhaps you are formatting the value with spaces or tabs.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.7.html#tkinter
