Natural Text
I recently came across this question.I get this error: and its answer:Your error is happening because Object is a module, not a class. So  your inheritance is screwy.Change your import statement to:and your class definition to:orchange your class definition to:I'm not really satisfied with this answer as I'm not really sure how I get from that error message to the conclusion that I am accidentally inheriting from a module instead of a class. I was wondering if somebody could elaborate on why this error is occurring and what exactly the arguments being given are? When the python interpreter comes across code like this:  what is happening? What exactly does the answerer mean by my inheritance is screwy? Thanks for any explanations or references to resources.
If you put an object called  in the inheritance list, then the interpreter will call this internally:You can create a dummy BaseClass to test itwhich outputs:To answer your question: When the interpreter sees , the following will happen:If  is a normal class,  will return  itself. Then  will get called.If  is a module,  will return the object , which has a method . But this method only takes 2 argument, there you get an error.
To find out where you've gone wrong, you don't really need to look at the error message in this case, it's pretty clear from the code itself.Always means that foo is a module (as opposed to  where  can be a module, class, function a variable and so on). This is where naming conventions help us, if  is followed, then one can easily differentiate between classes and module. The code in your question doesn't follow which is clearly not good for others to understand.Once you get that you've tried to subclass/inherit a  the rest is not that tricky.Most of the modules don't define  which means when you try to access it, it simply tries to find it up in the inheritance chain (if you're really interested in that, you can read upon python inheritance, mro etc, but I suspect that's not what has confused you here.) and finds the builtin class  which (do  or ) has a  expecting different arguments than your overridden method. This would have been more tricky to debug if your method has exactly same number of arguments as the above.The error message does not seem helpful to you because there is no way for python to understand whether you intentionally want to override the  or some class's . Try 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#inheritance
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html
