Natural Text
I'm trying to delete specific lines in a text file the way I need to go about it is by prompting the user to input a string (a phrase that should exist in the file) the file is then searched and if the string is there the data on that line and the number line number are both  stored. After the phrase has been found it and the five following lines are printed out. Now I have to figure out how to delete those six lines without changing any other text in the file which is my issue lol.Any Ideas as to how I can delete those six lines?This was my latest attempt to delete the lines
Usually I would not think it's desirable to overwrite the source file - what if the user does something by mistake?  If your project allows, I would write the changes out to a new file.This is also robust to finding the phrase multiple times - it will just start counting lines to remove again.
You can find the occurrences, copy the list items between the occurrences to a new list and then save the new list into the file.
There are a couple of points that you clearly misunderstand here: removes whitespace or given characters:incrementing  doesn't actually do anything:You're assigning to the th element of the line, which should raise an exception (that you neglected to tell us about)Ultimately...You have to write to a file if you want to change its contents. Writing to a file that you're reading from is tricky business. Writing to an alternative file, or just storing the file in memory if it's small enough is a much healthier approach.There is a fatal flaw in this approach, though - if the sought after line is any closer than the 6th line from the end, it's going to have problems. I'll leave that as an exercise for the reader.
You are appending to your file by using  with 'a'. Also, you are not closing your file (bad habit).  does not delete the line, it removes whitespace by default. Also, this would usually be done in a loop.This to get started:Edit:Read-modify-write solution:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#open
