Natural Text
I am only three weeks into my Intro to Programming course, so bear with me!I am writing a code as follows: The code is functional (finally), but I can't seem to get rid of the space before the period on the print statements. Is there a way that I can do that?
The reason why this happens is because you are using commas in your print statements. In python there are a few ways to give the print statement multiple variables, you seem to be mixing two of them together. The ways are as follows.Concatenate the string.This way is probably the most basic way. It will join the strings without adding any characters in between them (e.g. no spaces in between unless you add them explicitly.) Also note, that string concatenation won't automatically cast the integers to a string for you.Pass print multiple arguments.This will automatically add spaces between each argument and is what is happening in your case. The separator (which defaults to a space) can be changed by passing a keyword argument to the print function. For example, Use string formatting.This way is the most readable and often the best way. It will replace the '{}' sections in you 'template' string  with the arguments based into the format function. It does this in order, however you can add an index like this '{0}' to explicitly use an argument by index.
Some string formating makes your live easier:Output:
You can control the "separator" using the  argument to :Note that this will change the spacing between the other items as well.Also -- You don't need the extra  operators in there.  Here's a version without the spaces and with explicit spaces added where I think you want them:
You're confused about the concatenation function and print fields.  If you're going to concatenate all those strings, just use concatenation.  The comma includes the default separator.
Try to write to it this way:
That's the way print works when you give it multiple comma separated arguments. The logic behind that is that when you quickly want to print a bunch of variables, it's a pain to manually add widespace.Well, one thing to try: Get rid of all the  in the print statement. You can just chain strings using the  sign.So, If you need even greater control over formatting, you'd want to look into the  function.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.format
