Natural Text
I was wondering how I could I have a usage like this:Basically, right now, I named my file httpclient.py so that I can call it by httpclient, and the rest is as follow:so right now if I do something as follow on the command line:however as you can see the url is place just after -v, where as in the task it is asked to be placed at the end, and exactly one url. So everytime I write:I get an error:So how can I put the URL at the end of my cmd line arguments
It's not clear why you're using  for a erbosity flag - you shouldn't expect any value to get passed for that, let alone multiple values. Also it's odd to combine both  and ; do you want the user to do e.g.  () or  ( for the resulting ? Alternatively, if what you want for  is to allow the user to set it multiple times, each time with a separate  and , then what you want is:It's pretty straightforward to take two optional arguments followed by a positional argument, and configure the display:Gets you:To add the separate  and  subcommands, look into using ; this will be much more effective than just allowing the user to give random input and comparing  etc.However, it's not clear what you actually want the user interface to be, so it's hard to say precisely how you should implement it.
With:test runs:Putting the 2nd positional argument right after the first works:A  Action is satisfied by an empty list.  So  is parsed right after , leaving nothing to handle the .creates the same namespace.Be careful with multiple variable nargs arguments.  They don't always work together well.The  will be a lot more useful if give it  and  values.   e.g. with defaults for the postionals as well:Here  is assigned to :For a  'switch', a  action might be better.   action also is used if you want to use  to signal extra verbose'.I didn't notice  'append', but I agree with the other answer.  That's an odd combination.  What is  without any following argument supposed to mean?  In this test, the bare  puts a  (default) in the  list.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html#sub-commands
