Natural Text
I seem to have made a computation error in my Python code but am not quite sure what caused it. I think it may be due to having two 'and' operators in my if statement but I wanted to ask on Stack Overflow to be sure. Here is the question:Given 2 int values, return True if one is negative and one is positive. Except if the parameter "negative" is True, then return True only if both are negative.Here is my code:Here is the correct answer:Thank you for your time.
Without explicitly writing the solution for you (which I guess would be pointless anyway because the one from the answer book looks about as good as possible), there are two errors worth pointing out that should set you along the right track:Python equality checks are done using , not ; the latter is the assignment operator and will result in a  in that context.Also, it's not good style to explicitly compare boolean variables to boolean constants. It's like someome asking you "Is 'it is raining' true?" instead of just "Is it raining?" At my university one of the professors would dock us 10,000 marks for writing code like that (at least he said that).There are certain paths in your implementation that will result in  being returned instead of a boolean  or . This is bad practice because it makes your function less intuitive to use by clients and could catch them out. Consider if  and  and  is .For what it's worth, there's nothing wrong with having multiple  or  operators within a conditional expression, although you should be aware of their short-circuiting behaviour.
After changing '=' to '==' and adding an else statement, I was able to get the correct answer. Here is my new code: However, I'm a little confused about your explanations of boolean constants and variables. Would it be possible for one of you to simplify your explanations? I'm still new to Python and programming in general so it was hard to grasp at first glance.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#boolean-operations-and-or-not
