Natural Text
In pycharm, I would like to break on a breakpoint that does nothing, during debugging. How can I do this?For example, I would like to break on the  statement:If I set a breakpoint on , the debugger doesn't break there. The closest I've been able to do so far is to make up some unused variable name, and assign it a pointless value, so I can set a breakpoint on that line:
When the just-in-time compiler compiles your example, it compiles to  as nothing. In other words,  is simply a keyword that should be used to tell the compiler that there is no syntax error in what would otherwise be an empty block. For example, try running the code without . Won't work. You can also try putting an unused expression (e.g. ) or effect-less statement (e.g. ) in place of . But I would recommend removing these when possible. You could also set a conditional breakpoint instead of breaking within the  statement.
As others have said, there is no clean way to do this. I recommend instead of pass, enter a useless statement such asthen set the break point on that line.Advantages: It allows you to set a breakpoint there. (What you wanted to do.)Once you are accustomed to the idiom, you know what it really means.Every now and then you can go through your code and remove the old ones that you no longer use.Disadvantages:It clutters up your code if you don't periodically remove them.Collaborators may become confused as to what you are doing.If you leave them in production code there might be a slight performance hit (depending on whether Python optimizes them out).
Use Ellipsis!For quick breakpoints or something that make minimum visual impact to you code, you may insert and break on an  (Ellipsis):For example:this may the most clean way towards me.Some backgroundEllipsis is a special built-in python object mainly for Slice notating. Here I (ab)use it to do something else. See: What does the Python Ellipsis object do?It is OK to insert a bare integer, variable name or something into code to set break point on certain place, but it may look odd and clutter your code, but  is visually harmless. Compare with this:or this:some other tricks tested:another interesting thing that happens to me is, when i set breakpoints on  it may or may not break, depending to its location in code, but the exact rule for break or not is somehow unclear.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html#pdbcommand-break
