Natural Text
I'm very new to python but I've learned the basics and now how it mostly works. I've been trying to install a Django framework for a server so that it can host a webpage.Basically the problem here is that when I run commands such as:I get the outputBut for some reason when using pip3 it decides to use the pip that is version specific to Python 3.5, for example doing:installs Django in "/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages" instead of the Python 3.6 counterpart of the dist-packages directory.according to python documentations (https://docs.python.org/3/installing/index.html?highlight=pip#work-with-multiple-versions-of-python-installed-in-parallel) I should be able to run this command:to use the pip that is specific to Python 3.6, but this doesn't seem to work. I get an error saying "no module named pip" or "no module named pip3".I am running on a server that uses Ubuntu 16.04I appreciate all help, thanks in advance! :)EDIT: I have tried runningwhich gave me the outputFrom this I can say that I have no problems at all using python3 with Python 3.6, but when running pip3 it uses pip 9.0.1 from Python 3.5. Also runninggives me the output
I once had the similar problem. And, I sort it out with following:First install pip3 in your systemCreate your virtualenvThen install djangon in your virtualenv after activating it.You can specify the django version as:
I totally forgot about this post, I just wanna say that pip is a very dangerous tool and should be used with caution since it affects the structure of your computer/server. What I did to solve whatever mess I had created at this time was to:Format the server.To work with and only use pip/pip3 in virtualenv. What makes virtualenvs so awesome is that if something goes wrong then it only goes wrong inside that virtualenv. You will not need to format your computer/server, instead you might have to delete that virtualenv and create a new one.Never use pip/pip3 on your computer/server without a virtualenv, I found out that you don't even need to install it on your root. Best way of using pip is to run a virtualenv and then install it on that virtualenv.Hope these tips helps preventing people from making huge but easily avoidable mistakes! :D 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/installing/index.html?highlight=pip#work-with-multiple-versions-of-python-installed-in-parallel
