Natural Text
Why are  and  strings instead of ints in the below code?  Everything on the web says to use , but I read on Stack Overflow (on a thread that did not deal with integer input) that  was renamed to  in Python 3.x.
TLDRPython 3 doesn't evaluate the data received with  function, but Python 2's  function does (read the next section to understand the implication).Python 2's equivalent of Python 3's  is the  function.Python 2.xThere were two functions to get user input, called  and . The difference between them is,  doesn't evaluate the data and returns as it is, in string form. But,  will evaluate whatever you entered and the result of evaluation will be returned. For example,The data  is evaluated and the result is . When it evaluates the expression , it detects that you are adding two numbers and so the result will also be of the same  type. So, the type conversion is done for free and  is returned as the result of  and stored in  variable. You can think of  as the  composed with an  call.Note: you should be careful when you are using  in Python 2.x. I explained why one should be careful when using it, in this answer.But,  doesn't evaluate the input and returns as it is, as a string.Python 3.xPython 3.x's  and Python 2.x's  are similar and  is not available in Python 3.x. SolutionTo answer your question, since Python 3.x doesn't evaluate and convert the data type, you have to explicitly convert to s, with , like thisYou can accept numbers of any base and convert them directly to base-10 with the  function, like thisThe second parameter tells what is the base of the numbers entered and then internally it understands and converts it. If the entered data is wrong it will throw a .For values that can have a fractional component, the type would be  rather than :Apart from that, your program can be changed a little bit, like thisYou can get rid of the  variable by using  and . PS: Python doesn't expect  at the end of the line :)
In Python 3.x,  was renamed to  and the Python 2.x  was removed.  This means that, just like ,  in Python 3.x always returns a string object.To fix the problem, you need to explicitly make those inputs into integers by putting them in :Also, Python does not need/use semicolons to end lines.  So, having them doesn't do anything positive.
For multiple integer in a single line, map might be better.If the number is already known, (like 2 integers), you can use
 (Python 3) and  (Python 2) always return strings. Convert the result to integer explicitly with .Pro tip: semi-colons are not needed in Python.
Multiple questions require input for several integers on single line.  The best way is to input the whole string of numbers one one line and then split them to integers.
Convert to integers:Similarly for floating point numbers:
Python 3.xTaking  as input in python:we take a simple  input using:Now we want  as input. So we typecast this  to  simply using:
Python 3.x has  function which returns always string.So you must convert to python 3.xpython 2.xIn python 2.x  and  functions always return string so you must convert them to int too.
In Python 3.x by default the input function takes input in string format. To convert it into integer you need to include :
I encountered a problem of taking integer input while solving a problem on CodeChef, where two integers - separated by space - should be read from one line.While  is sufficient for a single integer, I did not find a direct way to input two integers.  I tried this:Now I use num1 and  num2 as integers.  Hope this helps.

While in your example,  does the trick in any case, 's  is worth consideration since that makes sure your code works for both Python 2 and 3 and disables Python2's default behaviour of  trying to be "clever" about the input data type ( basically just behaves like ).
the for loop shall run 'n' number of times . the second 'n' is the length of the array.the last statement maps the integers to a list and takes input in space separated form .you can also return the array at the end of for loop.

Yes, in python 3.x,  is replaced with . In order to revert to old behavior of  use: This will let python know that entered input is integer
Try this,int() is a built-in python function that converts any datatype to a integer.
Lots of people like to do , but if you put in a string, it will raise an error. What I like to do is this:Now use integer for whatever purpose!!Plus, if s is an string, this doesn't raise an error!!!At least, not immediately. 
parse the input into an integer with int
This makes it know that the variable  and  are integers and therefore uses them like integers.If you want it to be able to use decimals change  to .The output for the first function:  and  returned .


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#input
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#int
https://docs.python.org/3/library/ast.html#ast.literal_eval
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#input
