Natural Text
I have the following package (and working directory):In  I have:If I try to import MyPackage into my notebook:I will get . But import works fine if I execute the script outside a notebook: if I create  in the same directory and do the same as in the notebook the import would work properly. It will work inside the notebook if I use fully qualified name in  ().What's the reason for different import behavior?I have confirmed the working directory of the notebook is .---Update---------Exact error is:My problem differs from the possible duplicate:The notebook was able to find the package, but only unable to load the module. This was inferred from substituting  with  worked well and suggests it may not be a problem related with .I cded into  and started the server there. The working directory should be the folder containing my package.
I'm pretty sure this issue is related and the answer there will help you: https://stackoverflow.com/a/15622021/7458681tl;dr the cwd of the notebook server is always the base path where you started the server, no matter was running  says. Use . I ran it with some dummy modules in the same structure as you had specified, and before modifying  it wouldn't run and after it would
The reason is that your  is ran from the current working directory. E.g. from  in this case. It means, that interpreter cannot find the module named  since it is not located in either current or global packages directory.There are few workarounds for this. For example, you can temporarily override a current working directory like thisand then, after all a package initialization actions like  are done, restore "caller's" working directory with .This is quite a bad approach as for me, since, for example, if an exception is raised on initialization actions, a working directory would not be restored. You'll need to play with  statements to fix this. Another approach would be using relative imports. Refer to the documentation for more details.Here is an example of  that will work for your example:But it has few disadvantages that are found rather empirically then through the documentation. For example, you cannot write something like .Upd:I've found this exception to be raised even if  is ran from usual python console. Not from IPython or Jupyter Notebook. So this seems to be not an IPython itself issue.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html#intra-package-references
