Natural Text
I'm using Celery to run some background tasks. One of the tasks returns a python class I created. I want to use json to serialize and deserialize this class, given the warnings about using pickle.Is there a simple built in way to achieve this?The class is very simple, it contains 3 attributes all of which are lists of named tuples. It contains a couple of methods that performs some calculations on the attributes.My idea is to serialize/deserialize the 3 attributes, since that defines the class.This is my idea for the encoder, but I'm not sure how to decode the data again?
First but not least important: the warnings against pickle are mainly if you could have 3rd partis injecting pickled data on your worker stream. If you are certain your own system is creating all pickled data to be consumed, there is no security problem at all. And as for compatibility, it is relatively easy to handle, and automatic if you are on the same Python version for produers and consumers of your Pickle files.That said, for JSON, you have to create a subclass of Python's  and  - each of which will need to be passed as the  argument to all your  and  calls.A suggestion is that the  method on the encoder encodes the class , its  and a identifier key, say  to ensure it should be custom decoded, as keys to a dictionary, and the object's data as  a "data" key.And on the encoder, you check for the   key, and them instantiate a class using the  method, and populate its dict. Like for pickle, side-effects that are triggered on the class  won't run. You can later on enhance your decoder and encoder so that, for example, they search the class for a  method that could handle only the desired attributes.  Sample implementation:Interactive test on the console:
Here is an improved version of the great solution provided by @jsbueno which also works with nested custom types. Check it out:Prints:The original version only reconstructs the  correctly while all instances of  and  are not instantiated but left as dicts:Note that if the type contains an collection like list or tuple, the actual type of the collection can not be restored during decoding. This is because all those collections will be converted into lists when encoded to json.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html#encoders-and-decoders
