Natural Text
I've just started a class that uses Python.  At this point, I'm a complete beginner.  I running Windows 10 via Parallels on an iMac.  I'm have trouble organizing the directories within the "Python36-32" directory that is located on the VM (Windows).  If I place a .py file in the main directory, I can run the file through the command prompt and see something like.  c:\Program Files\Python36-32>python first.pyhelloHowever, if I try to organized the file the file isn't read at all.  For example, if I wanted the "first.py" file to run from a "web221" (the name of my class) subdirectory of "python36-32" and then try to open "first.py", I get:C:\Program Files\Python36-32\web221>python first.py'python' is not recognized as an internal or external command,operable program or batch file.I'd really like to keep all of the .py files I create for my class organized for obvious reasons.  Any help would be appreciated.
When you execute from the one directory, the Python executable is present and Windows has no issue finding what to execute.From the other directory though, Windows attempts to find the executable in your  and cannot see it.Here is some help from the Python 3 docs:https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html#excursus-setting-environment-variablesSpecifically, try this as a test:Windows allows environment variables to be configured permanently at both the User level and the System level, or temporarily in a command prompt.To temporarily set environment variables, open Command Prompt and use the set command:However, this will only temporarily add the executable to your path.  Try it to see if it works, and if it does, then you'll have the information you need to add it to your  variable permanently.  Note: your directory is named differently, so you'll need to replace  with the name of the directory where Python is installed.For the task of editing the  such that the changes persist from one command prompt session to the next, there's a related SO question that might be helpful:How to add to the pythonpath in windows 7?


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html#excursus-setting-environment-variables
