Natural Text
OS:- Mac OSXPythonI'm new to Multiprocessing with python. For my application, I want to open a new process from main and run it without locking the main process. for eg. I'm running process A and now i need to open a new application from A, lets call it process B. I want to open B in such a way that it does not blocks process A and still from Process i should be able to stop the process whenever i wish to.Till now whatever code i have tried are basic and they lock the process A. and hence i'm unable to achieve it. Is there any workaround to do this ?I read about fork and spawn but couldn't understand how can i use it to open an application. And i have tried threading also. But with no success. Can anyone tell me how can i do that ?Currently I'm using subprocess.call() to open Mac Applications through Python.It would be really helpful.EDIT :- I tried the accepted answer of this linkbut to no avail. Because it would block the terminal and once we close the app manually it exits with output 0. Also I have tried this solution. It would do the same. I want to make the the calling process not to be blocked by the called process.while doing the same task in windows with os.system() gives me exactly what i want. But i don't know how can i do this in Mac. EDIT 2: CODEmodule 1:main module:
Comment: it gave a traceback. FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'leafpad'  As i wrote, I can't us  and , so my example uses .Have you tried replacing  with your?You must pass the same  as you start it from the .Read this: launch-an-app-on-os-x-with-command-line Reread From Python » 3.6.1 Documentation subprocess.Popen  Note  shlex.split() can be useful when determining the correct tokenization for args, especially in complex cases:Python » 3.6.1 Documentation:  subprocess.call(args, *, stdin=None, stdout=None, stderr=None, shell=False, timeout=None)  Run the command described by args. Wait for command to complete, then return the returncode attributeYour given  and  didn't work for me.From Python » 3.6.1 Documentation subprocess.Popen  NOWAIT example, for instance:Note: Killing a  can lead to data loos and or other problems.  Tested with Python:3.4.2I'm


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.Popen
https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.Popen
