Natural Text
I have created a data structure for my purposes, which is a simple dictionary with a list of values as data:imagine a sequence of procedures, where you mix 2 compounds, and record temperature variation, potential energy, variance in color and such, this is what each entry in the dictionary represent.What would be the best way to achieve a filter implementation? This is an example of what would like to achieve. My filter mostly will aim at use just few parameters (like compound, hardware), either as single or as combinedAs output examples:I was thinking to use a list as possible parameters, and compare each entry in the dataset; but I can't find an efficient way to get this done. This is my first approachThis works if I have one entry, but if I have multiple entry in the filter list; I have to make more than one pass on the dataset, and this is not really efficient nor scalable, in case I will add more parameters to my data structure.The other alternative that I had in mind, was to save pre-made filters, that get called via the filter parameter passed to the function, but this is a nightmare from the perspective of maintain code, since each change in the filter has to be hardcoded.
Instead of storing the parameters as  you could store them as nested dictionaries. This would make the filter implementation easier and it would also allow you to filter based on parameters and not only their values. Say you want to find all the procedures where . If you call  you might get procedures where  is  instead.One way to filter the nested  is to use generator expression with  within  block. You could easily convert the generator to desired return type or terminate the filtering when first match is found:Output:
I'm developing a chatbot which needed filtering functionality that I believe is similar to what you require. I maintain a database of 'response articles' that have the form . For example: "Hi there, how are you doing?  ".This allows me to implement logic within the chatbot where it tries to compose appropriate responses via a tag requirement system which supports both "And" and "Or" sub-requirements. These sub-requirements can be nested to form a tree structure.These tag requirements can be parsed from a string. For example, the string "emote,cute;emote,happy" can be satisfied by any response article containing either  and  or  and .In your case, the response article would be analogous to the procedure name, and the response classifications to the procedure attributes. You could adopt something similar to my approach to specify requirements like "carb,spectrometer*;alk,spectrometer*" to match all procedures that involve a spectrometer and involve either 'carb' or 'alk' (or both).My code is written in C# but hopefully you might still find it useful. This page is probably the best place to start looking, and you can see examples of its usage in this test class.For the sake of convenience and redundancy I'll copy the code below.ImplementationTests



Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#all
