Natural Text
If I have a class ...... which I use to create an object ...... on which I call  like so ...... why does Python tell me I gave it two arguments, when I only gave one?
In Python, this:... is syntactic sugar, which the interpreter translates behind the scenes into:... which, as you can see, does indeed have two arguments - it's just that the first one is implicit, from the point of view of the caller.This is because most methods do some work with the object they're called on, so there needs to be some way for that object to be referred to inside the method. By convention, this first argument is called  inside the method definition:If you call  on an instance of , it works as expected:Occasionally (but not often), you really don't care about the object that your method is bound to, and in that circumstance, you can decorate the method with the builtin  function to say so:... in which case you don't need to add a  argument to the method definition, and it still works:
Something else to consider when this type of error is encountered:I was running into this error message and found this post helpful. Turns out in my case I had overridden an init() where there was object inheritance.The inherited example is rather long, so I'll skip to a more simple example that doesn't use inheritance:Result is:PyCharm didn't catch this typo. Nor did Notepad++ (other editors/IDE's might).Granted, this is a "takes no parameters" TypeError, it isn't much different than "got two" when expecting one, in terms of object initialization in Python.Addressing the topic: An overloading initializer will be used if syntactically correct, but if not it will be ignored and the built-in used instead. The object won't expect/handle this and the error is thrown.In the case of the sytax error: The fix is simple, just edit the custom init statement:
It occurs when you don't specify the no of parameters the init() or any other method looking for For exampleWhen you run the above programme ,it gives you an error like that TypeError: __init__() takes 1 positional argument but 6 were givenhow we can get rid of this thing?just pass the parameters ,what init() method looking for 
Pass  parameter into  to resolve this problem.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-decorator
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#staticmethod
