Natural Text
I am wondering how I can extract every other digit (starting with the second) from a number assigned to a variable in python.For example, I want this:to becomeI hear this is possible to do using "slicing," I'm just not sure how.Any help is appreciated!
Edit:Else, if you start from the given string, then you should simply slice it like this:First element  means you want to slice the element starting from its second element.The last element  is the interval (every two element)The empty middle element is actually the upper index limit (exclusive). If you don't put anything means you want all items.Original:Refering from your previous question here:How to make list elements into string?Started from having ,In order to get the joined string for the given integer list  from the second element per list item onwards, you could slice each item of the list to from the second element onwards by using  (index  means starting from the second element) like this:Result:
First, you can only slice on certain sequence objects, like lists and strings.  You have an integer. You can still get the result you want however.first take your number and convert it into a string:then after doing this, you can use normal slice syntax, so you can do this with the start, end, step sizenow a will be the int you want. EDIT:  you seem to have changed your question entirely so it becomes even more trivial:You are able to 'slice' into strings, slicing syntax is  you can omit the first parameter if it starts at the first index (in this case you would get "123" instead of "000", so we can't do that) if you omit the second it goes to the end and if you omit the last parameter step size of 1 is used.  In this way you can even use slicing to copy arrays/strings via
Just do the following:Which does essentially the same thing as:
Python slicing syntax supports an optional third argument, a step argument:
In python, if you have a list, string etc(call it ), you can access its elements by providing the range of indexes you want the  over. For example, if ,  will give  back. That is, would correspond to 'first six elements of a'. If you give it  the output would be , that is elements from 1 through 4(5 is not inclusive). You can also ask it to skip a certian number of elements by specifying a third value such as . This would mean, start from the 0th element, go up to 6th skip one in the middle. To answer your question, you would need 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#slice
