Natural Text
I'm creating an AI/Personal assistant/chatbot combination. It's working perfectly for chatting and answering question which I've inputted the answers for, and the code is rather simple.But I need to add a way so I can say "What is the time?" (Or similar) and get a response telling me the accurate current time. That's most important but if possible, I'd like to have it able to check weather and perform as a calculator. I'll attach what I have so far. (Not nearly done, only about 15%).I'm using Python 3. I'm pretty new to Python and making this for a school project, so please don't be too complex with a solution, or explain it simply. Also, important: Where in the program will I put it?And the code begins here:
You've made it quite far, so I am just going to give you some guidance on printing the current time using Python and you should be able to fit this into your program wherever you decide it belongs. To return the current time for your timezone (you didn't specify the timezone you'd like to have), you can import the datetime library and ask it for the time, like so:This will probably give you the time in your timezone, a value something like 2016-02-01 16:37:30.591102. Optional Harder Next StepTo be a bit more universal, you could prompt the user for a timezone offset, such as -8 (for PST here in California). One of the most straightforward ways to do that would be to take the time in UTC, using the following function:And then you have to add or subtract the user's timezone offset, using a timedelta:When you prompt the user for a timezone offset, the value you get back will be a str, but you will need it to be some kind of number in order to pass it to the timedelta function. You'll need some way of turning a string into a number there if you want to go this route.Another problem is that you would need to know the user asked your program the time question because you would have to immediately follow that question with the timezone offset question.How to Print a Datetime object in interesting waysLastly, there are many different ways to format the value that now gives you in order to print it out in interesting ways. We often use the strftime function, which you can read as "string of time", and we pass it a formatting string so the function knows the format we want. The formatting string uses specific identifiers, which you can see in the documentation:This will print the hour followed by a space followed by the minute followed by a space and the month as a 3-character abbreviation followed by a space and the day:You can experiment with different ways of formatting the time using the examples in the documentation.The other things you asked aboutThe weather and the calculator example are a bit more complex: the weather because you'll need to request it from a website and parse the results and the calculator because you'll need to write something that parses input and figures out what to do with it. I recommend playing with the time using these examples, and then, if you really want to tackle the calculator, then perhaps look at something on "reverse polish notation", which make it so at least you won't have to match parentheses. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html?highlight=datetime#strftime-and-strptime-behavior
