Natural Text
I am new to PyCharm and I have 'Process finished with exit code 0' instead of getting (683, 11) as a result (please see attachment), could you guys help me out please? Much appreciate it!Best regards,ET
That is good news!  It means that there is no error with your code.  You have run it right through and there is nothing wrong with it. Pycharm returns 0 when it has found no errors (plus any output you give it) and returns 1 as well as an error message when it encounters errors.  Editors and scripts do not behave like the interactive terminal, when you run a function it does not automatically  show the the result. You need to actually tell it to do it yourself.Generally you just print the results.If you use print(data.shape) it should return what you expect with the success message Process finished with exit code 0.
exit code 0 means you code run with no error.Let's give a error code for example(clearly in the below image): in below code, the variable lst is an empty list, but we get the 5 member in it(which not exists), so the program throws IndexError, and exit 1 which means there is error with the code.You can also define exit code for analysis, for example:
I would recommend you to read up onexit codes. exit 0 means no error.exit 1 means there is some error in your code. This is not pyCharm or python specific. This is a very common practice in most of the programming languages. Where exit 0 means the successful execution of the program and a non zero exit code indicates an error.
Almost all the program(C++/python/java..) return  0 if it runs successful.That isn't specific to pycharm or python.In program there is no need to invoke exit function explicitly when it runs success it invoke exit(0) by default, invoke exit(not_zero_num) when runs failed.You can also invoke exit function with different code(num) for analysis.You can also see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exit_(system_call) for more details.
please add your code and not the attachment. Also, this means that the compilation was successful (no errors). Pycharm and command prompt (Windows OS), terminal (Ubuntu) don't work the same way. Pycharm is an editor and if you want to print something, you explicitly have to write the print statement:In your case, Hope it helps.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#print
