Natural Text
At school we have to write a program to use the pythagorean theory. Im writing it in python 3 but when I return cber the program just ends. bber on the other hand works fine. Can someone please help? Thanks already:)Edit: Thanks for helping me, this is not everything with the function kiezen the user can choose two numbers and the j and the n are to decide which lines they are in the triangle, thats in the function kiezen too. This is all in one function called cijfers, I dont know if that makes a difference. I used return because that way I could let the user choose the numbers again if he/she entered something unvalid. And I forgot to remove the ifs in cber before posting it. I’ll try to improve my program sometime soon. Thanks for all your feedback:)
There are a few problems going on.You need to import modules.In your code, you are using , so the first line required is to actually import the  module at the beginning of your file:You are not getting access to your variables inside your functions. To pass them to your function, you have to specify them as function parameters:def bber(a, c):On the positive side, your function  reports the right answer inside your statement . However, the following conditional statement, , calls the function , which doesn't actually exist. In that case, every time a is greater than or equal to c, the program will print a .The function  works, but you don't actually need to have  statements, because you get the variable c no matter if b is greater than a or if a is greater than b. You might want to consider checking for other types of input (like text, negative numbers, floats, etc.), though.Here is how you could simplify your  function, also having to pass in actual parameters:The function  isn't actually doing anything in your code. It is defined, but you don't use it anywhere, apparently.Variables defined inside functions are local to that function while variables defined outside a function (i.e. no indentation) are global variables. When you need to use a global variable inside a function, you have to pass it as a function parameter. For more information on this topic, you can read about the concepts of "scope", "global scope" and "local scope". You can also find examples in the official Python documentation, here.For now, so you can see how to use variables that are defined globally, I will use your incomplete  function without actually making it a function, so the code is directly executed in your program.One other problem here is that you can use the keyword  only inside a function, because that is what it is meant for: to return the result of a function.This means that you have to change your code  and  by removing the return keyword.You are missing a space at the end of your questions with . When you type your answer, it will appear right next to the last character in your string.When you want to check for multiple options (as you did with ), you can use a list instead and the keyword in.Here are some modifications needed to make your program work in the end. Comments are present on lines with the # symbol.As I mentioned earlier, this is not perfect because you would need to manage errors. For example, it will not work if you enter text instead of numbers, but that is a topic for another discussion.Also, for the purpose of this exercise, you do not actually "need" to use the  keyword in your functions if your goal is just to print the output, but keep in mind that if you need to reuse the result of a function, you will have to return a value for it.A quick example of that concept would be the following:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/faq/programming.html#why-am-i-getting-an-unboundlocalerror-when-the-variable-has-a-value
