Natural Text
I am trying to write a regular expression which returns a part of substring which is after a string. For example: I want to get part of substring along with spaces which resides after "15/08/2017".Is there a way to get  and  as separate strings?Here is the expression I have pieced together so far:
Not a regex based solution. But does the trick. Hope it helps. 
re based code snippetOutput
We can try using  with the following pattern:Searching in multiline and DOTALL mode, the above pattern will match everything occurring between  until, but not including, .Note that I also strip off whitespace from the match.  We might be able to modify the regex pattern to do this, but in a general solution, maybe you want to keep some of the whitespace, in certain cases.
Why regular expressions? It looks like you know the exact delimiting string, just  by it and get the first part:
I would avoid using regex here, because the only meaningful separation between the logical terms appears to be 2 or more spaces.  Individual terms, including the one you want to match, may also have spaces.  So, I recommend doing a regex split on the input using  as the pattern.  These will yield a list containing all the terms.  Then, we can just walk down the list once, and when we find the forward looking term, we can return the previous term in the list.
positive lookbehind assertion**
You have to return the right group:
You nede to use group(1)Output
Building on your expression, this is what I believe you need:Output:
You can do this by using UPDATEFor updated string you can use  instead of 
Your problem is that your string is formatted the way it is.The line you are looking for isAnd then you are looking for what ever comes after 'PHASED OF' and some spaces.You want to search for(?<=PHASED OF)\s*(?P.*?)\nin your string. This will return a match object containing the value you are looking for in the group .Also: There are many good online regex testers to fiddle around with your regexes.And only after finishing up the regex just copy and paste it into python.I use this one: https://regex101.com/


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html
