Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:How to validate an email address using a regular expression?                    71 answers                Is there a good way to check a form input using regex to make sure it is a proper style email address? Been searching since last night and everybody that has answered peoples questions regarding this topic also seems to have problems with it if it is a subdomained email address.
There is no point. Even if you can verify that the email address is syntactically valid, you'll still need to check that it was not mistyped, and that it actually goes to the person you think it does. The only way to do that is to send them an email and have them click a link to verify.Therefore, a most basic check (e.g. that they didn't accidentally entered their street address) is usually enough. Something like: it has exactly one  sign, and at least one  in the part after the :You'd probably also want to disallow whitespace -- there are probably valid email addresses with whitespace in them, but I've never seen one, so the odds of this being a user error are on your side.If you want the full check, have a look at this question.Update: Here's how you could use any such regex:Python ≥3.4 has  which is preferable to .Note the  in front of the string; this way, you won't need to escape things twice.If you have a large number of regexes to check, it might be faster to compile the regex first:Another option is to use the  package, which actually contacts the SMTP server to verify that the address exists. This still doesn't guarantee that it belongs to the right person, though.
The Python standard library comes with an e-mail parsing function: .It returns a two-tuple containing the real name and the actual address parts of the e-mail:And if the parsing is unsuccessful, it returns a two-tuple of empty strings:An issue with this parser is that it's accepting of anything that is considered as a valid e-mail address for RFC-822 and friends, including many things that are clearly not addressable on the wide Internet:So, as @TokenMacGuy put it, the only definitive way of checking an e-mail address is to send an e-mail to the expected address and wait for the user to act on the information inside the message.However, you might want to check for, at least, the presence of an @-sign on the second tuple element, as @bvukelic suggests:If you want to go a step further, you can install the dnspython project and resolve the mail servers for the e-mail domain (the part after the '@'), only trying to send an e-mail if there are actual  servers:You can catch both  and  by catching .And Yes,  is a syntactically valid address. Only the last  should be considered for detecting where the domain part starts.
I haven't seen the answer already here among the mess of custom Regex answers, but...There exists a python library called validate_email which has 3 levels of email validation, including asking a valid SMTP server if the email address is valid (without sending an email).Check email string is valid format:Check if the host has SMTP Server:Check if the host has SMTP Server and the email really exists:For those interested in the dirty details, validate_email.py (source) aims to be faithful to RFC 2822.All we are really doing is comparing the input string to one  gigantic regular expression.  But building that regexp, and  ensuring its correctness, is made much easier by assembling it  from the "tokens" defined by the RFC.  Each of these tokens is  tested in the accompanying unit test file.To install with pipand you'll need the pyDNS module for checking SMTP serversor from Ubuntu
Email addresses are not as simple as they seem!  For example, Bob_O'Reilly+tag@example.com, is a valid email address.I've had some luck with the lepl package (http://www.acooke.org/lepl/).  It can validate email addresses as indicated in RFC 3696: http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc3696.htmlFound some old code:
I found an excellent (and tested) way to check for valid email address. I paste my code here:
I see a lot of complicated answers here.  Some of them, fail to knowledge simple, true email address, or have false positives.  Below, is the simplest way of testing that the string would be a valid email.  It tests against 2 and 3 letter TLD's.  Now that you technically can have larger ones, you may wish to increase the 3 to 4, 5 or even 10.
This is typically solved using regex. There are many variations of solutions however. Depending on how strict you need to be, and if you have custom requirements for validation, or will accept any valid email address. See this page for reference: http://www.regular-expressions.info/email.html
Email addresses are incredibly complicated. Here's a sample regex that will match every RFC822-valid address:http://www.ex-parrot.com/pdw/Mail-RFC822-Address.htmlYou'll notice that it's probably longer than the rest of your program. There are even whole modules for Perl with the purpose of validating email addresses. So you probably won't get anything that's 100% perfect as a regex while also being readable. Here's a sample recursive descent parser:http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/ABIGAIL/RFC-RFC822-Address-2009110702/lib/RFC/RFC822/Address.pmbut you'll need to decide whether you need perfect parsing or simple code.
If you want to take out the mail from a long string or file Then try this. Note, this will work when you have a space before and after your email-address. if you don't have space or have some special chars then you may try modifying it.Working example:This will take out example@me.com from this string. Also, note this may not be the right answer.. But I have posted it here to help someone who have specific requirement like me
See validate_email docs.

Finding Email-id:
Found this to be a practical implementation:
For check of email use email_validator
Use this filter mask on email input:emailMask:  {|}~]/i`

The only really accurate way of distinguishing real, valid email addresses from invalid ones is to send mail to it.  What counts as an email is surprisingly convoluted ( actually is a valid email address), and you most likely want the email address to actually send mail to it later.  After it passes some basic sanity checks (such as in Thomas's answer, has an  and at least one  after the ), you should probably just send an email verification letter to the address, and wait for the user to follow a link embedded in the message to confirm that the email was valid.
email validation


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.fullmatch
