Natural Text
I am trying to create a script that flips a coin untill either "heads" is flipped 3 times in a row, or " tails"  is flipped 3 times in a row. My attempt is a quite long snippet of code that does not do what I want it to do. It simply prints out "heads"  once and loops on forever:I'm sure there is some much simpler way of doing this, but I can't seem to figure it out.
You do never leave your  loop that checks your list. The  statements only leaves the -loop (setting ) - your  loops until  is greater then 3 -> endless loop:You can simplify your code a lot by simply adding to the list and checking if the last 3 elements are equal instead of checking the whole list every time:Output 2 runs:If you dislike  you could also check: Doku:set() and frozenset()Understanding Python's slice notation python built in functions - Overview, the alternate approach uses all() 
There are a few problems regarding this code:1. This code produces an infinite loop:The inner while loop only terminates if the variable total_seq contains a value greater than 3. Since the only values that could possibly be assigned to it are 0 and 3 (according to your code), this while loop will go on forever.2. You only coinflip once at the beginning and that use this result over and over againrandom.randint(...) gives you one value which is stored in the cointosses list (which means: you only flip the coin once). The inner for loop assumes however, that you have a large number of tosses already stored in the list. It only sets total_seq to 3 if it can find 3 consecutive coinflips.Otherwise it will just repeat the inner while loop and do the same thing again without adding new coinflips (outer while is never reached again)3. The sequence counters seq_counter1 and seq_counter2 will only reset if the previous coinflip had a different result.Since you only coinflip once (as discussed in problem 2) the "previous coinflip" is always just the first one you did.This means that you coinflip once at the beginning and either increment seq_counter1 or seq_counter2 to 3 depending on the result of that first flip.SolutionAll three problems can be solved by removing the inner while loop and simply execute its code in the outer one:This works because the condition total_seq == 3 is already tested by the last if statement in the outer loop.ConclusionThis code however is not verry perfomant since you build a list and iterate over it again and again.You are iterating over everything every time you append one cointoss. However if you think about it: You only need to check if the newly appended element creates a consecutive row.If you want to do this right, you should do it with only one loop (no nested loops) :)


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#set-types-set-frozenset
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#all
