Natural Text
I came across this:What is return value of os.system()?  Why I get 0?
The return value of os.system is OS-dependant.On Unix, the return value is a 16-bit number that contains two different pieces of information. From the documentation:a 16-bit number, whose low byte is the signal number that killed the process, and whose high byte is the exit status (if the signal number is zero)So if the signal number (low byte) is 0, it would, in theory, be safe to shift the result by 8 bits (result >> 8) to get the error code. The function os.WEXITSTATUS does exactly this. If the error code is 0, that usually means that the process exited without errors.On Windows, the documentation specifies that the return value of os.system is shell-dependant. If the shell is cmd.exe (the default one), the value is the return code of the process. Again, 0 would mean that there weren't errors.For others error codes:on Linuxon Windows
os.system('command') returns a 16 bit number, which first 8 bits from left(lsb) talks about signal used by os to close the command, Next 8 bits talks about return code of command. Example 1 - command exit with code 1Example 2 - command exit with code 3Now try with signal - Example 3 - Write a program which sleep for long time use it as command in os.system() and then kill it by kill -15 or kill -9You can have a python program as command = 'python command.py'In case of c or c++ program you can use return from main() or exit(n) from any function  #Note - This is applicable on unixOn Unix, the return value is the exit status of the process encoded in  the format specified for wait(). Note that POSIX does not specify the  meaning of the return value of the C system() function, so the return  value of the Python function is system-dependent.os.wait()Wait for completion of a child process, and return a tuple containing its pid and exit status indication: a 16-bit number, whose  low byte is the signal number that killed the process, and whose high  byte is the exit status (if the signal number is zero); the high bit  of the low byte is set if a core file was produced..
"On Unix, the return value is the exit  status of the process encoded in the  format specified for wait(). Note that  POSIX does not specify the meaning of  the return value of the C system()  function, so the return value of the  Python function is system-dependent."http://docs.python.org/library/os.html#os.systemThere is no error, so the exit code is zero
os.system() returns some unix output, not the command output. So, if there is no error then exit code written as 0.
You might want to use instead. os.system only returns the error value. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html#os.system
https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html#os.WEXITSTATUS
