Natural Text
I've come up with the following which should be fairly close, but it's not quite right.  I am getting the following error when I try to test if the data is a weekday.  AttributeError: 'str' object has no attribute 'isoweekday'Here is my feeble code:I'm looking for the string 'Run:  ' (it always has 2 blanks after the colon) and then I want to move 15 spaces to the right, to capture the date.  So, n-number of spaces to find 'Run:  ' and then get the date, like '2018-12-23' and test if this date is a weekday.  If this substring is a weekday, I want to write the entire string to a line in a CSV file (the writing to a CSV file works fine).  I'm just not sure how to find that one date (there are several dates in the string; I need the one immediately following 'Run:  ').
You've only forgotten to load it into a datetime object:Also, as you are using .isoweekday() and Monday is represented as 1, you don't really need to check the lower boundary:
Maybe to convert back to datetime type:Then it should work as expected.
Let's suppose your link isYour following code will work well to find the offset starting from RunSince, there are two spaces after Run: hence, 16 needs to be added to offset.Now extracting exactly the date string 2018-12-21, we need to add 6 to offset as Run:   has 6 character before starting the date string.Now formatting our date string in an datetime object withRemember to import datetime at the top of your program file asNow checking and displaying if the date is a weekdayThis will return It's a Week Day!.
The pos of the example above will be Run:  2018-12-24, so it does not capture the date exactly.A string object does not have isoweekday method, so pos.isoweekday() will result to error. But a datetime.datetime object does have that method.A solution:This okay..?
Another alternative to this would be to use dateutil.parserThe advantage here is that parse will accept a wide variety of date formats that datetime might error out for


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#datetime.datetime.strptime
