Natural Text
I want to print out a sentence inside of a for loop where a different iteration of the sentence prints out for each different situation i.e. I have two different lists: student_result_reading and student_nameHere are my two issues:When I enter 2 or more names, they are not formatted correctly.When I enter 1 name, I get an error.Any help as to any solutions is appreciated. 
You can use built-in function zip  for that:Also, if you are using Python 2, you, probably, encountering problem, with this two lines:andI.e., if you enter something like student name as input for student name, you will get SyntaxError or NameError. Reason is, in Python 2, input function expects valid Python expression, in you case, string, like "student name", not simply student name. For later expression to be valid input, you can use function raw_input.
I prefer to access array elements by index, like this:
I'm not experienced in python much but what you could do i keep a counter for the number of students ,say count_students
The code will only fluke out and work if you enter in exactly two students. The main issue is a misunderstanding of the for loop at the end.Will printIt will not printas you would like. This answers why you see incorrect formatting when you enter exactly two students. You'll want to use zip to join the two lists as pointed out in another answer. so your for loop will work as intended.
The error is generated by use this: "input" i reeplaced by "raw_input".you can paste and run this code.
To simplify this, you can add the student name in a dictionary, instead of utilizing two lists. We still run the while loop and ask for the user input for the student name and the student score. Then I Alter the dictionary by adding a key that will be the students name, and set the value equal to the students score. We can then prompt the user to continue, or exit the loop by entering q. We can use the .items() method of a dictionary to iterate over each key and its corresponding value. Then we get the output that you are looking for in the same dictionary, instead of two separate lists, with the student names being the keys, and the student scores being the values. Here is the output: 
Let me explain it by a much simpler example:What gets printed here is:The crucial question is what actually happens here. It turns out that pets, ages is actually a tuple. Expressions separated by commas are called expression-lists.It is a tuple that contains 2 lists, it looks exactly like that: (['cat', 'dog'], [5, 7]). So when you iterate over it, next interesting thing happens :) Iterable unpacking!Basically what happens now is:And in the next iteration:That's how you got originally surprising output.The reason for the second issue you encountered is if you supply only one name, in the first iteration this happened (let's still use the example with pets):ValueError: need more than 1 value to unpackTo fix both issues, you can use built-in zip function.To format output you can also use so-called f-strings, they're available since Python 3.6


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#expression-lists
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#zip
