Natural Text
I'm trying to scrape the info from CBSsports.com golf tournament results but using beautiful soup returns only one of four table rows <tr> from the first of two <tbody> children of the <table>. Inspecting in google chrome returns:Screenshot of chrome inspectWhile beautiful soup returns:I've tried both the html and the lxml parsers to make the soup and tried both requests.get and urllib.requests to open the connection to the site but all result in the same. Any ideas what I'm doing wrong?The final desired output, I would like to be able to pull most of the data from the table and put into a pandas dataframe but I should be able to figure that out once i can access each of the table data points.
On the page you scrape, div#Leaderboard doesn't contain any rows until javascript running in your browser renders them. Neither standalone requests nor urllib.request does that for you. I recommend you this package requests-html created by the author of very popular requests.Now the table contains rows, we can get them with the code below:As you can see we successfully found the rows:There were several rows that you are probably not interested in such as: title, highlight, label and adRow. That's why I used tr[id^='Leaderboard'] selector to filter them. It targets all tr with ids that starts with Leaderboard (e.g. id of the first row containing data is Leaderboard401338). You can read more about substring matching attribute selectors or about CSS selectors in general here.
If you view source of the page then you will find that table with id="Leaderboard" does not contain actual rows with player data but are rendered using javascript.requests.get or urllib.request is used to perform HTTP Requests so javascript rendering is not performed by these (your browser does that for you).To fetch the data you have to use some framework which renders data.You can checkout Splash.Using scrapy with splash is also an option.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/urllib.request.html
