Natural Text
I have a  with 4 columns of which 2 contain string values. I was wondering if there was a way to select rows based on a partial string match against a particular column?In other words, a function or lambda function that would do something like returning a boolean. I am familiar with the syntax of  but can't seem to find a way to do the same with a partial string match say .Would someone be able to point me in the right direction?
Based on github issue #620, it looks like you'll soon be able to do the following:Update: vectorized string methods (i.e., Series.str) are available in pandas 0.8.1 and up. 
I am using pandas 0.14.1 on macos in ipython notebook.  I tried the proposed line above:and got an error: but it worked perfectly when an "==True" condition was added, like this:
If anyone wonders how to perform a related problem: "Select column by partial string" Use:And to select rows by partial string matching, pass  to filter:
Quick note: if you want to do selection based on a partial string contained in the index, try the following:
Say you have the following :You can always use the  operator in a lambda expression to create your filter.The trick here is to use the  option in the  to pass elements to the lambda function row by row, as opposed to column by column.
Here's what I ended up doing for partial string matches.  If anyone has a more efficient way of doing this please let me know.
Since I've seen a lot of questions on similar topics, I thought it would be good to leave this here.Basic Substring SearchTo select all rows containing "foo", use :Note that this is a pure substring search, so you can safely disable regex based matching. Performance wise, this does make a difference.Avoid using regex-based search if you don't need it.Note  Partial substring searches that are anchored at the start or end of strings can be done using  or   respectively.Additionally, for regex based searches anchored at the start, use .Regex-based SearchMost  methods support regular expressions. For example, to find rows in  which contain "foo" followed by something else, we can use Matching Entire Word(s)By default, the substring search searches for the specified substring/pattern regardless of whether it is full word or not. To only match full words, we will need to make use of regular expressions here—in particular, our pattern will need to specify word boundaries ().For example, Now consider,v/s Multiple Substring SearchThis is most easily achieved through a regex search using the regex OR pipe.You can also create a list of terms, then join them:Sometimes, it is wise to escape your terms in case they have characters that can be interpreted as regex metacharacters. If your terms contain any of the following characters...Then, you'll need to use  to escape them: has the effect of escaping the special characters so they're treated literally.Multiple Whole Word SearchSimilar to the above, except we add a word boundary () to the joined pattern.Where  looks like this,A Great Alternative: Use List Comprehensions!Because you can! And you should! They are usually a little bit faster than string methods, because string methods are hard to vectorise and usually have loopy implementations. Instead of,Use the  operator inside a list comp,Instead of,Use  (to cache your regex) +  inside a list comp,If "col" has NaNs, then instead of Use,More Options for Partial String Matching: , , .In addition to  and list comprehensions, you can also use the following alternatives.Supports substring searches (read: no regex) only.This is a wrapper around a loop, but with lesser overhead than most pandas  methods.Regex solutions possible:Supports string methods through the python engine. This offers no visible performance benefits, but is nonetheless useful to know if you need to dynamically generate your queries.More information on  and  family of methods can be found at Dynamic Expression Evaluation in pandas using pd.eval().Recommended Usage Precedence(First) , for its simplicityList comprehensions, for its performance(Last) 
Why don't you try with .Just replace the  with string referring to column where you want to search for your sub-string and replace  with the text you want to be searched for ("Hello" in your case).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/regex.html#matching-characters
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.escape
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#list-comprehensions
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.compile
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.Pattern.search
