Natural Text
In a parent class, I defined a class variable and a class method with which to modify the class variable value. I want each child class to use its own variable, not share with its parent. But the result is not what I expected; in the following example I have two sets of parent class plus child classes, and some code to demonstrate what goes wrong:Here are the results:The first example has the expected result, but not the second, why is the class variable shared with the parent class when I called the class method on a child class in the second set of classes?My expected results:
The difference is that you mutated a dictionary. The first, simple example with integers works with immutable integer objects.  takes the value of  (from a parent class if necessary), after which the  operation produces a new integer object that is then assigned back to . The assignment matters here, as that will take place on the child class.But you didn't assign anything back to a class with the second case:You assigned to a key in the dictionary. The  attribute itself is not altered, it is the same dictionary shared between all the classes. The  reference is looked up, found on the  base class, after which the dictionary itself is updated by adding the key-value pair. None of the subclasses ( or ) have the attribute themselves.You would need to create a copy and assign back the altered copy:This creates a copy not just of the outer dictionary but of all the values too, because those are all dictionaries too, before adding the new dictionary for . The copy is then assigned to , effectively creating a new attribute on a subclass if it wasn't there already.That's not that efficient of course; the copy is created each time you register a loader. You'd be better of with creating a new  dictionary object on each subclass, but that gets tedious and can easily be forgotten. You can instead automate that with the  method:The  method is called for each subclass you create.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html#object.__init_subclass__
