Natural Text
OS: Windows 10Python: 3.5.2I am trying to open calc.exe do some actions and than close it.Here is my code sampleSo this is not working for calc.exe, it just opens the calculator, but does not close it, But same code is working fine for "notepad.exe".I am guessing that there is a bug in subprocess lib for process kill method. so the notepad.exe process name in task manager is notepad.exe, but the calc.exe process name is calculator.exe, so I am guessing it is trying to kill by name and do not find it.
There's no bug in . If you're really worried about that, just check the source, which is linked from the docs. The  method just calls , which just calls  unless the process is already done, and you can see the Windows implementation for that function. In short:  doesn't care what name the process has in the kernel's process table (or the Task Manager); it remembers the PID (process ID) of the process it started, and kills it that way.The most likely problem is that, like many Windows apps,  has some special "single instance" code: when you launch it, if there's already a copy of  running in your session, it just tells that copy to come to the foreground (and open a window, if it doesn't have one), and then exits. So, by the time you try to  it 2 seconds later, the process has already exited.And if the actual running process is , that means  is just a launcher for the real program, so it always tells  to come to the foreground, launching it if necessary, and then exits.So, how can you kill the new calculator you started? Well, you can't, because you didn't start a new one. You can kill all  and/or  processes (the easiest way to do this is with a third-party library like —see the examples on filtering and then  the process once you've found it), but that will kill any existing calculator process you had open before running your program, not just the new one you started. Since  makes it impossible to tell if you've started a new process or not, there's really no way around that.
This is one way to kill it, but it will close every open calculator.It calls a no window command prompt and gives the command to close the Calculator.exe process.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html
