Natural Text
I was trying to code a function which goal is to decrypt a message encrypted using Caesar cipher, this function is named . The function returns the wrong answer, but among the printed values there is the correct one. Example:In the following picture you can see that among the printed values there is  which is the correct answer, but the function returned the wrong one.You can find here the file called 'words.txt' used in the program and its antivirus scansion:https://www.dropbox.com/s/jyeos4kdy50yseh/words.txt?dl=0;https://www.virustotal.com/#/file/1fcb398331cfbad0f335a51aed5028e57fd9639701137c9cdddc2f54a8a32a54/detection.This is my code (written in Python 3):
You have (at least) three distinct issues in your code:Your word list reading code only works if all the words are on a single line.  (Of course, if your word list really does consist of a single long line, then it's OK.  But most word lists have just one word per line.)You never assign anything but 0 to .As pointed out by N Chauhan, you're looking for the best shift amount S for decrypting the input, but then shifting the input by 26 − S instead of S when returning the result.In any case, you would've probably caught these issues yourself if you'd either stepped through your code in a debugger (learn to use one! it's really useful!) or used a more detailed debug print statement instead of just .In particular, something like this (placed e.g. at the end of the loop) would tell you a lot more about what's going on in your code:Anyway, with those issues fixed, your code works.  You could make it more efficient by converting  into a set (e.g. just by replacing  in  with ), but for a short message like yours, it's not absolutely necessary.
Your error seems to be here:As in your demonstration output, the correct decode is on output 24, therefore you should just do:As  will return pass  into  instead of 24 which you correctly printed out at the end -  - but had passed in the wrong shift number


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#set
