Natural Text
I recently found out that you can play sounds in python. I instantly wanted to make a text to morse code program but when I try to assign winsound.Beep(600,300) to "a" and launch, it just beeps once and when i type a it does nothing.can you tell me how i can assign winsound.Beep() to a varible?
You are mixing up "code that runs right now" with "code I want to run later".Your line,runs dot() (which beeps and returns None) then runs line() (which beeps and returns None) then assigns the result (None, None) to the variable a.Instead trywhich creates a function which you can run later by calling a()... but it will still sound like one continuous beep, because you need to add a short pause after each tone in the definitions of dot() and line(). You might find time.sleep() useful, or possibly winsound already provides something similar.Edit:You can use a dispatch table (a dict that translates characters to function calls) and an input loop, like so:
My solution to your problem will involve passing functions as parameters to other functions. If this is unfamiliar to you, I suggest you look into functional programming with Python a little bit.You would use the function like so:
In python everything is an object. If you run this:Execute dot() and assign the returned value to a - in your case it's None. However, if you want to "assign" the function dot() to a and then call a you do this:In this case the names a and dot refer to the same object. a is now a function which you call with parentheses only.
Adding a layer of indirection is often helpful. Define the character values separately from the playing, then you can loop over any text:How to play (single) dots and dashes (the lines are referred to as dashes):Play one character by looking up the morse value for the character in the alphabet and then iterate over the dots/dashes:to play a text, assuming it's ascii, just iterate through the characters and play each of them in turn:then:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#input
