Natural Text
I have a Python class for a  object which inherits .I plan on expanding my  class to include additional attributes and subtags. Before doing this, I want to simplify attribute access by converting my class to use .Unfortunately, trying to inherit from  raises a TypeError about creating  instances.Why is my class raising a TypeError? How do I inherit frrom ?
In hindsight, I recommend against using  to create subclasses.As the comments mentioned,  is not a class. It is a factory method that creates and returns an object, meaning it cannot be inherited.While it's possible to inherit from  or , the lxml documentation strongly warns that you must not override  or , which my original answer did.BIG FAT WARNING: Subclasses must not override  or  as it is absolutely undefined when these objects will be created or destroyed. All persistent state of Elements must be stored in the underlying XML. If you really need to initialize the object after creation, you can implement an _init(self) method that will be called directly after object creation.- Documentation for I suggest inheriting from a different class instead. As mentioned in the original question, you can inherit from  fairly easily.Working with sub-classes of  may be more trouble than it's worth. However, if you really want to subclass  despite the warnings, you can see my original answer below.Old Answer (Unsafe)Try inheriting from  instead.Make sure that your class name matches your XML tag, as  uses the class name for the root XML tag name.As Goyo and bruno desthuilliers pointed out,  is not a class, which means you can't inherit from it. Going off their comments, I used  to confirm this for myself and discovered that  returned an object of type .After changing my class to inherit from , the class worked as expected.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html#xml.etree.ElementTree.Element
https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html#module-xml.etree.ElementTree
