Natural Text
I am following the Quick Start Guide for Yocto Project on Windows Subsystem for Linux.I cloned all the necessary stuff:cloned the repository to a directory in the  directorycreated a branch as mentioned in the manualand executed the fileOnce I execute  I get the following Error:I stumbled upon some GitHub Issue from the WSL Issue Tracker that this might have something to do with .I can't figure out what is wrong here and which socket is the error really about?
First off, good for you trying out Yocto on the Windows Subsystem for Linux! You are a brave individual.The problem you are running into is probably filesystem related.The socket it is trying to create is  referenced in . This is pretty much the first thing bitbake does, so if it cannot bind to that socket the server won't start.I should mention that you probably saw a warning that you were not using a "supported distribution". Still, it is interesting seeing someone try this idea out.For serious development I'd recommend using virtualization until WSL is mature enough to support applications as complex as bitbake.If you are interested in contributing to the Yocto Project and getting bitbake working on any platform check out the newcomers page, submit a feature request in the buzilla, and join us for the monthly technical call. The project is always interested in using new and exciting technologies, and patches are always welcomed.
I have also tried this and had the same issue when building from within the /mnt/c/../poky/build location. As of Win ver. 1803 Build#17134.1 I can't seem to get pyinotify and the bitbake scripts to work from the widows directory.However bitbake works from WSL when inside the WSL directory structure, when did this I simply But this was a mistake as I had already attempted to compile and had just copied my symbolic links to a new location. I have added mc (Midnight Commander) to my WSL because I am too lazy to type everything every time and use mcedit as my default editor, because it has syntax highlighting, mouse, go to line, search support and more (but the point is get used to the terminal editor of your choice) .  My first run completed with errors, because of the fore mentioned copy path error, but after double checking the log and resetting my links I will compile again (more to come).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html
