Natural Text
Didn't know how to write the title. So there is this game I am trying to code in python. A random generated 4 digit number with different digits, will be compared to the user input number of the same properties.(4 digit, different digits)Is there a short way of comparing both numbers to evaluate and return to the user the following:1) How many digits match in both numbers that are in the same decimal place in both numbers.2) How  many digits match in both numbers that are in different decimal places.Output will be +1 for each of the condition 1 above and -1 for the condition 2; indicating; "+" sign for right place and the following number after "+" is for the number of right place digits; "-" sign for the wrong place and the following number after the "-" sign is for the misplaced digits that are in the number to be guessed.example: for computer's number 1234guess1: 1572feedback1: +1 -1guess2: 1039feedback2: +2 -0guess3: 1243feedback3: +2 -2And this goes on until the feedback is +4 -0, which returns the user guessed the number in x tries and he/she is a complete idiot:)I did this in 70 coding lines (just the first guess comparison part) or so and since I don't know the first thing about coding, I am sure there is a better way to do it. Several times I had to convert the number(s) into strings and back to integers while doing so.Most probably, I don't know the command to use and how to use it to simplify things, so I almost if/elif/else'd the whole thing one by one.(emphasize on almost:)) What little I know, I have learned from the python documentation online and from here. But for starters like me, it can get a bit messy to find the right thing especially when you don't really know what you are looking for:) So please, don't "you should read" me. I am and will read regardless.Can someone show please me the proper short way of doing it ? Just the comparison of/testing of both numbers part will be enough to get me going more optimistically.
as mentioned by the comments: this is not how you should ask a question here. you need to show some (coding) effort. please take the tour,read up on how to ask a questionand provide a minimal, complete and verifiable examplethat reproduces your problem.nevertheless i was interested on how i would solve that; here is my attempt. i used  in order to allow for repeated digits. none of this has been thoroughly tested but is should get you starting.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html?highlight=counter#counter-objects
