Natural Text
I am making a calculator program in my Python, following a tutorial. Here is my code:It is very basic, it gets up to the point of printing all the option numbers and then asks me to pick one. So I enter "1" as a string, parsing it to an integer 1. However it doesn't go straight to option 1 and instead loops again which is fine I will sort that out later. But again it doesn't go to any option when I enter 1-5. I think I typed in the wrong code to parse it or something?
Result of input function is a string, you need to convert it to int, using int type . Your misconception might come from that python is a dynamically typed language. But remember that despite variables themselves are untyped, variable values have types.
Your code should look more like this:Salient points:You aren't doing anything with a. So I got rid of it, and put a call to input that stores its result in _, which is the standard name for a variable whose value you don't care about. You must explicitly convert option to an int. Python will not implicitly convert for you, and so '1' != 1. You cannot convert to an int in-place - writing int(number1) does nothing. You must write number1 = int(number1) or similar. You cannot convert multiple strings to an int in a single statement of the form int(number1, number2). What you're actually doing here is calling int(x, base), where you convert x into an int, interpreted as being in base base.I refactored your if statements to be more conciseVariable names are typically lowercase in Python. You cannot assign to a variable inside a print statement. 
that code posted contains several errors, below is the corrected code:
input() converts the input to a string, so if you need to read an int, you have to cast it.In the if condition, you could cast the input() result (a string) to int:then create a variable, let's say result and assign it the sum of the numbers:and finally print the resultThe final code should look like this:Notes:You could use an if-elif-else as the structure, so if Option == 1, the following conditions won't be checked. I would also recommend you to follow Python naming convention. Your variable Number1 should be called number1 and so on.
I corrected your code.Notes: Triple quote syntax is good for long multiline strings.The pythonic way of formatting a printed string is the str.format method.Good luck learning! 


Answer URL
