Natural Text
I am trying to build a bot that will scrap the purchase history of purchased domains. So far I was able to extract the domain from the csv file and store them into a list (PS: there are 10k domains). The problem accures when I am trying to scrap the website with them. I have tried doing this with two domains and it works perfectly. Does anyone know what error is this and how I can fix it? Thank you very much in advance.my code:The output of my code:
From the python docs:exception socket.gaierror A subclass of OSError, this exception is raised for address-related errors by getaddrinfo() and getnameinfo().The accompanying value is a pair (error, string) representing an error  returned by a library call. string represents the description of  error, as returned by the gai_strerror() C function. The numeric error  value will match one of the EAI_* constants defined in this module.gai => get address infoFrom the urllib3 wikipage:New exception: NewConnectionError, raised when we fail to establish a new connection, usually ECONNREFUSED socket error.Some possible reasons for an ECONNREFUSED error here along with some commandline commands to probe the address and port. By the way, instead of reading all the rows into an array, then deleting the first item in the array, which makes python slide all the other items over one spot, you can more efficiently skip the header(?) like this:next() will throw a StopIteration exception if there isn't a next row.  If you want to prevent that, you can call next(my_reader, None), which will return None if there is no next row.Threading example:By the way, there will be an optimal number of threads to start, which is less than N.  Create a thread pool, and when one thread is done have it go back and read another resource path from a worker queue.  You'll have to run some tests to figure out how many threads are optimal. Creating 10,000 threads is not optimal.  If you have four cores, as few as 10 threads may be optimal.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/socket.html#socket.gaierror
