Natural Text
My assignment:Write a short Python function, minmax(data), that takes a sequence  of one or more numbers, and returns the smallest and largest numbers,  in the form of a tuple of length two. Do not use the built-in  functions min or max in implementing your solution.Here's the code:This gives me ValueError: not enough values to unpack (expected 2, got 1).How do I fix this?
You've used the wrong syntax.  I believe that what you're trying to do is to initialize both min and max to the first element of the list.  The assignment you used is for multiple assignment -- with two variables on the left, you must have two values on the right.However you want the user to enter the input is fine; simply split the input on the delimiter you choose, and then use that for split.Also, remember to convert the values from string to int (left as an exercise for the student).The important syntax for the error you gave isNow you can continue with your loop.
There are bugs in your code:You should define your list format. Such as input numbers are separated by ",","" etc.when you assign data[0] to min and max, you have to put = between min and max.Please make changes in your code as shown below:Please provide the input list as number1, number2, number3 etc.This will work correctly.
data is a tuple that holds your input items in the form (1, 2). You are doing data[0] which means you are getting the first item from data tuple, which is just one item, not two. Then with the command max, min = data[0] you are telling python to extract two items from one item data[0].Instead use:
You have not converted the input into a list, and you have defined min and max in a wrong way. Do this to convert inputs into list: And for min and max, you're assigning two value by saying do it like this:You can cheat on this program in a way, if only condition is not using min and max function. You're sorting the list in a manner. However you can also do this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/ast.html#ast.literal_eval
