Natural Text
How do I remove an element from a list by index in Python?I found the  method, but say I want to remove the last element, how do I do this? It seems like the default remove searches the list, but I don't want any search to be performed.
Use  and specify the index of the element you want to delete:Also supports slices:Here is the section from the tutorial.
You probably want :By default,  without any arguments removes the last item:
Like others mentioned pop and del are the efficient ways to remove an item of given index. Yet just for the sake of completion (since the same thing can be done via many ways in Python):Using slices (this does not do in place removal of item from original list):(Also this will be the least efficient method when working with Python list, but this could be useful (but not efficient, I reiterate) when working with user defined objects that do not support pop, yet do define a  ):Note: Please note that this method does not modify the list in place like  and . It instead makes two copies of lists (one from the start until the index but without it () and one after the index till the last element ()) and creates a new list object by adding both. This is then reassigned to the list variable (). The old list object is hence dereferenced and hence garbage collected (provided the original list object is not referenced by any variable other than a).This makes this method very inefficient and it can also produce undesirable side effects (especially when other variables point to the original list object which remains un-modified).Thanks to @MarkDickinson for pointing this out ...This Stack Overflow answer explains the concept of slicing.Also note that this works only with positive indices.While using with objects, the  method must have been defined and more importantly the  method must have been defined to return an object containing items from both the operands.In essence, this works with any object whose class definition is like:This works with  which defines  and  methods.Comparison of the three ways in terms of efficiency:Assume the following is predefined:The  method:By far the most efficient method. It works will all objects that define a  method.The disassembly is as follows:Code:Disassembly: method:It is less efficient than the del method and is used when you need to get the deleted item.Code:Disassembly:The slice and add method.The least efficient.Code:Disassembly:Note: In all three disassembles ignore the last two lines which basically are . Also the first two lines are loading the global values  and .
 is also useful to remove and keep an item from a list.  Where  actually trashes the item.
Generally, I am using the following method:
This depends on what you want to do.If you want to return the element you removed, use :However, if you just want to delete an element, use :Additionally,  allows you to use slices (e.g. ).
Yet another way to remove an element(s) from a list by index.a[x:y] points to the elements from index  to . When we declare that portion of the list as an empty list (), those elements are removed.
You could just search for the item you want to delete. It is really simple.Example:Output: a c d e
Use the following code to remove element from the list: If you want to remove index element data from the list use:
As previously mentioned, best practice is del(); or pop() if you need to know the value.An alternate solution is to re-stack only those elements you want:eta: hmm... will not work on negative index values, will ponder and updateI suppose would patch it... but suddenly this idea seems very brittle. Interesting thought experiment though.  Seems there should be a 'proper' way to do this with append() / list comprehension.  pondering
It doesn't sound like you're working with a list of lists, so I'll keep this short.  You want to use pop since it will remove elements not elements that are lists, you should use del for that.  To call the last element in python it's "-1"
l - list of values; we have to remove indexes from inds2rem list.
If you want to remove the specific position element in a list, like the 2th, 3th and 7th. you can't useSince after you delete the second element, the third element you delete actually is the fourth element in the original list. You can filter the 2th, 3th and 7th element in the original list and get a new list, like below:
Use the "del" function:    For example, if you want to remove the last 3 items, your code should be:For example, if you want to remove the last 8 items, your code should be:
One can either use del or pop, but I prefer del, since you can specify index and slices, giving the user more control over the data.For example, starting with the list shown, one can remove its last element with  as a slice, and then one can remove the last element from the result using .
You can use either del or pop to remove element from list based on index.  Pop will print member it is removing from list, while list delete that member without printing it.
Or if multiple indexes should be removed:Of course then could also do:
But never use pop() with loop .it will cause an error .use pop() without loop.
You can simply use the  function of Python. Like this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#the-del-statement
