Natural Text
So, I have two models called apartments and jobs. It's easy to display contents of both models separately, but what I can't figure out is how to display the mix feed of both models based on the date.The posted date on job is represented by 'posted_by' and the posted date on apartment is represented by 'date'. How can I combine both of these and sort them according to the date posted? I tried combining both of these models in a simpler way like:This just creates the list of both of these models, but they are not arranged based on date. 
I suggest two ways to achieve that.With  New in Django 1.11.Uses SQL’s UNION operator to combine the results of two or more QuerySetsYou need to to make sure that you have a unique name for the ordered field  Like  field for  and also Note with this options, you need to have the same field name to order them.OrWith , used for treating consecutive sequences as a single sequence and use  with  to sort themWith this option, you don't really need to rename or change one of your field names, just add a property method, let's choose the Job ModelSo now, both of your models have the attribute , you can use 
A good way to do that is to use adapter design pattern. The idea is that we introduce an auxiliary data structure that can be used for the purpose of sorting these model objects. This method has several benefits over trying to fit both models to have the identically named attribute used for sorting. The most important is that the change won't affect any other code in your code base. First, you fetch your objects as you do but you don't have to fetch them sorted, you can fetch all of them in arbitrary order. You may also fetch just top 100 of them in the sorted order. Just fetch what fits your requirements here:Then, we build an auxiliary list of tuples (attribute used for sorting, object), so:now, it's time to sort. We're going to sort this auxiliary list. By default, python sort() method sorts tuples in lexicographical order, which mean it will use the first element of the tuples i.e. posted_on and date attributes for ordering. Parameter reverse is set to True for sorting in decreasing order i.e. as you want them in your feed. now, it's time to return only second elements of the sorted tuples:Just keep in mind that if you expect your feed to be huge then sorting these elements in memory is not the best way to do this, but I guess this is not your concern here.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html#itertools.chain
