Natural Text
I am learning python from Coursera . I have written one program , According to that when I click on the screen , it draws circle . See the program below  --But my doubt is in def draw(canvas),  , I have not defined any position . I made  as comment . Then what is the value of position in  , How can for loop work without any value ? What is iteration ? What is the difference between for loop and iteration ? If above code doesn't work in your IDE, please go to http://www.codeskulptor.org/#user38_VSZ0jZ0uTh_0.pyand run it .
 loop in python is little bit different compared to other languages. I'll try explaining with code you have written.Every time you call the  function then you are appending the  to the list called  which you need to draw the circle.Now after you have list with  then you call the following function. Here the variable  iterates through all the  that you have appended to the list  starting from first till last value.And if you are wondering how and what is the value of  variable then print it's value and see it for yourself like the following:
1020304050123456712345678910
Say you have your own class that you want it to be iterable:Now you can: now have the value returned from  in each iteration. That's how things work in Python, and in your case, you have a , which has it's own  and used in a similar way.
In python,  iterates through every item in , and assigns the value of the current iteration to the variable  so that you can reference that value inside the body of the for loop. Here's an eval.in that might help you see how it works.Here's a brief comparison to Java, assuming that the variable "arrayList" is an  (Java) or  (Python) of things, and you want to call the method  on each value in the list.Python:Java:Fundamentally, you COULD write Python that looks more like the Java:This code would do the exact same thing. However, Python realized that this is a common enough task that there was value in providing a level of abstraction for it (often called "syntactic sugar" in programming languages). You can read more about Python iterators, and how different kinds of data get iterated, in the python documentation.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#iterators
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#iterators
