Natural Text
At this moment I wrote this code:Now I want to write the value of  to a file, and later when I saved 256 of these inputs I want to write another program to read the 256 inputs and give the sum of those and divide that number by 14. If someone could help me on the right track with writing the values and later read them I can try to find out how to do the last part. But I've been trying for 2 days now and still found no good solution for writing and reading.
The tutorial covers this very nicely, as MattDMo points out. But I'll summarize the relevant part here.The key idea is to open a file, then write each  in some format, then make sure the file gets closed at the end.What format? Well, that depends on your data. Sometimes you have fixed-shape records, which you can store as CSV rows. Sometimes you have arbitrary Python objects, which you can store as pickles. But in this case, you can get away with using the simplest format at all: a line of text. As long as your data are single values that can be unambiguously converted to text and back, and don't have any newline or other special characters in them, this works. So:That's it. The  opens the file, creating it if necessary. The  makes sure it gets closed at the end of the block. The  writes a line consisting of whatever's in , formatted as a string, followed by a newline character.To read it back later is even simpler:
Use serialization to store the data in the files and then de-serialize  them back in to the original state for computation. By serializing the data you can restore the data to the original state (value and type, i.e.  as a  and not as string) Off you go to the docs :) : https://docs.python.org/2/library/pickle.htmlP.S. For people to be able to help you he code needs to be readable, That way you can get a better answer in the future.  
You can write them to a file like so:And then sum them like this:However, I would consider whether you really need to write each  to a separate file. There's probably a better way to solve your problem, but I think this should do what you asked for.P.S. I would try to read your code and make a more educated attempt to help you, but I don't know Dutch!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#reading-and-writing-files
