Natural Text
My question is if anyone can please help me to debug this piece of code:My objective is to try and write a piece of code that can work out if someone is over 18 and thus eligible to vote. This is meant to be achieved by asking the person to input their date of birth and then working out the difference in years between their birthdate and today's date, then using an IF statement to tell them whether or not they are able to vote (i.e. if the difference in years is more or less than 18).Currently I am having several problems with debugging this code. Firstly, on line 10 there is a Syntax Error which I am unsure how to rectify. Secondly, if I remove the last 4 lines and run the code again I get the following error:However in all probability there are other mistakes that I am currently unable to pick up. Sadly as I am very new to programming, my knowledge and experience are not great and so any help would be greatly appreciated! While trying to research a solution I have attempted to use coding that I am unfamiliar with, so please correct me where I am wrong.Thank you very much in advance!
The reason you get the  is that you're trying to open and read a tarball—that is, a binary file—as if it were a text file.When you do that, Python tries to interpret the arbitrary bytes of that file as if they represented characters in your default character set (cp1252), but that's going to give you an exception if you're lucky, or successfully give you complete garbage if you're not. Try opening  in a text editor to see how meaningful it is as text.It's hard to say how to fix that, because it's not clear why you're trying to open and read that file in the first place. As jonrsharpe points out, you're not doing anything with the results. And I can't imagine what you would do with them.If you're trying to make  be importable, the way to do that is not to do anything with the tarball in your script, but to install the module, which you do from outside your script, before running it. The simplest way to do that is just , which will automatically find the right version of , download it, unpack it, and install it for all of your scripts to use.That being said, there's really no need for  here. If you just subtract two  objects, you get a  object.Meanwhile, the  comes from this code:In Python, compound statements like  and  need a colon before the suite, and the suite has to be indented. See the First Steps Towards Programming section of the tutorial. So:(Also notice that I've removed the space before the parentheses, to fit PEP 8 style, and spelled "eligible" properly.)
You can calculate the latest date that someone could be born to be 18 without the dateutils module.  So you don't even need to unpack the tarball or really worry about the extra code.  Here is a simple example of calculating the date one would have to be born on to be 18.Then when you create a datetime object from their input, you can just compare them.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/introduction.html#first-steps-towards-programming
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#if-statements
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/introduction.html#first-steps-towards-programming
