Natural Text
This is my code:This prints: 2008-11-22 which is exactly what I want BUT....I have a list I'm appending this to and then suddenly everything goes "wonky". Here is the code:This prints the following: How on earth can I get just a simple date like "2008-11-22"?
The WHY: dates are objectsIn Python, dates are objects. Therefore, when you manipulate them, you manipulate objects, not strings, not timestamps nor anything.Any object in Python have TWO string representations:The regular representation that is used by "print", can be get using the str() function. It is most of the time the most common human readable format and is used to ease display. So str(datetime.datetime(2008, 11, 22, 19, 53, 42)) gives you '2008-11-22 19:53:42'. The alternative representation that is used to represent the object nature (as a data). It can be get using the repr() function and is handy to know what kind of data your manipulating while you are developing or debugging. repr(datetime.datetime(2008, 11, 22, 19, 53, 42)) gives you 'datetime.datetime(2008, 11, 22, 19, 53, 42)'.What happened is that when you have printed the date using "print", it used str() so you could see a nice date string. But when you have printed mylist, you have printed a list of objects and Python tried to represent the set of data, using repr().The How: what do you want to do with that?Well, when you manipulate dates, keep using the date objects all long the way. They got thousand of useful methods and most of the Python API expect dates to be objects.When you want to display them, just use str(). In Python, the good practice is to explicitly cast everything. So just when it's time to print, get a string representation of your date using str(date).One last thing. When you tried to print the dates, you printed mylist. If you want to print a date, you must print the date objects, not their container (the list).E.G, you want to print all the date in a list :Note that in that specific case, you can even omit str() because print will use it for you. But it should not become a habit :-)Practical case, using your codeAdvanced date formattingDates have a default representation, but you may want to print them in a specific format. In that case, you can get a custom string representation using the strftime() method.strftime() expects a string pattern explaining how you want to format your date.E.G : All the letter after a "%" represent a format for something :%d is the day number%m is the month number%b is the month abbreviation%y is the year last two digits%Y is the all yearetcHave a look at the official documentation, or McCutchen's quick reference you can't know them all.Since PEP3101, every object can have its own format used automatically by the method format of any string. In the case of the datetime, the format is the same used instrftime. So you can do the same as above like this:The advantage of this form is that you can also convert other objects at the same time.With the introduction of Formatted string literals (since Python 3.6, 2016-12-23) this can be written asLocalizationDates can automatically adapt to the local language and culture if you use them the right way, but it's a bit complicated. Maybe for another question on SO(Stack Overflow) ;-)
Edit:After Cees suggestion, I have started using time as well:
The date, datetime, and time objects all support a strftime(format) method, to create a string representing the time under the control of an explicit formatstring.Here is a list of the format codes with their directive and meaning. This is what we can do with the datetime and time modules in PythonThat will print out something like this:
Use date.strftime. The formatting arguments are described in the documentation.This one is what you wanted:This one takes Locale into account. (do this)
This is shorter:
OUTPUT
Or even Out: '25.12.2013orOut: 'Today - 25.12.2013'Out: 'Wednesday'Out: '__main____2014.06.09__16-56.log'
Simple answer - 
With type-specific datetime string formatting (see nk9's answer using str.format().) in a Formatted string literal (since Python 3.6, 2016-12-23):The date/time format directives are not documented as part of the Format String Syntax but rather in date, datetime, and time's strftime() documentation. The are based on the 1989 C Standard, but include some ISO 8601 directives since Python 3.6.
You need to convert the date time object to a string.The following code worked for me:Let me know if you need any more help.
You can do:
You may want to append it as a string?
Since the print today returns what you want this means that the today object's __str__ function returns the string you are looking for. So you can do mylist.append(today.__str__()) as well.
I hate the idea of importing too many modules for convenience. I would rather work with available module which in this case is datetime rather than calling a new module time.
this will print 6-23-2018 if that's what you want :)
Considering the fact you asked for something simple to do what you wanted, you could just:
You can use easy_date to make it easy:
A quick disclaimer for my answer - I've only been learning Python for about 2 weeks, so I am by no means an expert; therefore, my explanation may not be the best and I may use incorrect terminology. Anyway, here it goes.I noticed in your code that when you declared your variable today = datetime.date.today() you chose to name your variable with the name of a built-in function. When your next line of code mylist.append(today) appended your list, it appended the entire string datetime.date.today(), which you had previously set as the value of your today variable, rather than just appending today(). A simple solution, albeit maybe not one most coders would use when working with the datetime module, is to change the name of your variable.Here's what I tried: and it prints yyyy-mm-dd.
Here is how to display the date as (year/month/day) :
I don't fully understand but, can use pandas for getting times in right format:And:But it's storing strings but easy to convert:
In this way you can get Date formatted like this example: 22-Jun-2017


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#formatted-string-literals
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.format
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#formatted-string-literals
https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#formatstrings
https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-strptime-behavior
