Natural Text
I need to make a rectangle data class and an executable program to test it.This is the full problem that I am dealing with:In the executable's main function:prompt the user to enter the length and width of a rectangle.create a new Rectangle instance with the dimensions entered by theuser.to verify the above step, print both dimensions using theirrespective "getter" methods.test the area() method by printing the rectangle area, accurate to twodecimal places.test the perimeter() method by printing the rectangle perimeter,accurate to two decimal places.change the length to 22.345 and change the width to 15.789.test the area() and perimeter() methods again. You should get theresults shown in the sample output.*My question is, does the class file have to be in the same folder as the executable file?If anyone wants to provide tips on the rest of it, please do.  This is what I have for the rectangle class:
With a few corrections to typos, you can put the class definition right inside your main program:NB: Getters and setters do not belong in a Python program. A proper Python Rectangle would look like this:That would be used as such:But look out:That makes as much sense as, say, rectangle.get_area() = 3 - i.e., none.
Your class looks more or less fine. However, in the first picture you posted describing the class setup, it appears that get_area() and get_perimeter() should be named simply area() and perimeter(). There are some other minor typos as @PaulCornelius mentioned that will result in errors.Your "executable file", i.e. the file that calls the methods of your Rectangle class can be in another file, but it doesn't need to be. For example:will work just fine, printing the area of the rectangle. Otherwise you can create a new file that includes import rectangle to import your Rectangle class. This does require it to be in the same folder (or you must configure Python so it knows where to look for the module).Creating the script that actually calls your methods is the best way to verify things behave properly, and may provide hints as to how to fix them. For example, trying to call get_area() on a Rectangle will result in an error (as __getwidth() is not defined anywhere, but get_width() is).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/
