Natural Text
Recently I installed Python 3.4.3 in my environment (Windows 8.1) and tried to deploy a simple Django server. When I runned the command python manage.py runserver but the following exceptions appeared:Unhandled exception in thread started by .wrapper at 0x031B5D68>I believe this exception happened due some error or misconception when I tried to install mysql-python. I changed the DATABASE config in settings.py from "django.db.backends.mysql" to "django.db.backends.sqlite3" and runned pretty well. The configs that I tried are the following:But using SQLite works:I am experiencing some troubles and any advice would be appreciated. I would like to know why this is happening and how can I workaround it.Further info:Mysql version is 5.6.4Mysql Python version is 1.2.5Python version is 1.2.5Windows 8.1Django version is 1.8.1The full log error can be seen here. Update Saturday 16, May 2015:I came up with an simple solution: downgrade Python from 3.x to 2.7.x. I explain the steps below as the answer of my question. I also found this answer very useful, but now that I'm using Python 2.7 everything is ok.I also found this article that answers the question "Should I use Python 2 or Python 3 for my development activity" and that was what made me to decide whether keep with Python3 or Python2. Since Python3 hasn't a strong library support, I will wait a little more until update it.
For Python 3 we need to install mysqlclient and PyMySQL
Eureka! I figured out the answer guys.As @nikhiln mentioned in the comments, mysql-python is not supported yet for Python 3.x:MySQL-3.23 through 5.5 and Python-2.4 through 2.7 are currently supported. Python-3.0 will be supported in a future release. PyPy is supported.  mysql-python 1.2.5To work around it, I downgraded my Python from 3.4 to 2.7.9, and installed the Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler for Python 2.7 and Microsoft Visual C++ 2008 SP1 Redistributable Package (x64) to properly run it.Then I installed the mysql-python client using a .whl file from Christoph Gohlke`s Unofficial Windows Binaries for Python Extension Packages. I did as following (assuming C++ 2008, Compiler for Python and Pip are already installed):pip install wheel to install the wheel program. With it you are able to compile .whl files.Download the properly file MySQL_python‑1.2.5‑cp27‑none‑...Run the command pip install MySQL_python‑1.2.5‑cp27‑none‑...whl (the file you downloaded in the previous step).And Voilà! mysql-python is running swiftly now!To check if everything is ok, just run import MySQLdb into Python shell.If no exception was raised, then the work is done.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/installing/
