Natural Text
This is kind of confusing I suppose, but I have a CSV with 3 columns, First, I want to go through the CSV and remove all rows except for "new". Once that is done I want to remove all but the first column, and then save that list as a text file. The code I have so far...With the code I have it prints just what I want:Now that I have just the customers that bought "new" vehicles, I want to then cut the 2 columns on the right, leaving just a list of names. I then want to save that list of just names to a .txt file. This is where I am getting stuck, I don't know how to proceed from here. 
This is no problem. Look at the following. This is untested, but something similar should work. 

While all approaches given until now work, they are all naive, and will perform poorly on large CSV files. The also require you to "manually" work with CSV files, and create for loops.When ever you see files CSV files you should think of the two options: SQLite or Python Pandas. SQLite, and it's built into your Python already. It uses SQL, so you need to learn some SQL ...Pandas, uses a more Pythonic API to do the things you want to do, and it's not included (but it should not be complicated to install either...). Here is how to what you wanted with Pandas:Get all the names (the first column):Find all new products:You can assign the result, and then save it to a csv file. Also note that Pandas can handle CSV files very efficiently since it is written in C.About loading CSV with pandasThe CSV reader has tons of options. Check them out! I loaded the file naively and hence the space in the column name. If you think it's ugly, I would agree. You can pass the following keyword to fix the situation:To show how simple pandas isIf you really want the names of those who have new products, as in the answer of Padraic Cunningham, you can simply concatenate methods:
Just unpack using a generator expression and keep the name when the type row entry is equal to new:in.csv:out.csv:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sqlite3.html?highlight=sqlite#module-sqlite3
