Natural Text
This should be easy but somehow I'm not quite getting it.My assignment is: Write a function sentenceCapitalizer that has one parameter of type string. The function returns a   copy of the string with the first character of each sentence capitalized. The function should return   “Hello. My name is Joe. What is your name?” if the argument to the function is “hello. my name is   Joe. what is your name?” Assume a sentence is separated by a period followed by a space."What I have so far is:Upon execution I get the error:What is that telling me and how do I fix this? I tried following instructions found on a page listed as the python software foundation so I thought I'd have this.
You are trying to use a string method on the wrong object; words is list object containing strings. Use the method on each individual element instead:But this would be applying the wrong transformation; you don't want to capitalise the whole sentence, but just the first letter. str.capitalize() would lowercase everything else, including the J in Joe:Limit yourself to the first letter only, and then add back the rest of the string unchanged:Next, a list object has no .join() method either; that too is a string method:This'll join the strings in words2 with the '. ' (full stop and space) joiner.You'll probably want to use better variable names here; your strings are sentences, not words, so your code could do better reflecting that.Together that makes your function:Demo:
This does the job. Since it extracts all sentences including their trailing whitespace, this also works if you have multiple paragraphs, where there are line breaks between sentences.Here is a working example.
To allow arbitrary whitespace after the dot. Or to capitalize the full words (It might make the difference for a Unicode text), you could use regular expressions -- re module:Note: pep8 recommends lowercase names for functions e.g., capitalize_sentence() instead of sentenceCapitalizer().To accept  a larger variaty of texts, you could use nltk package:
I did not use 'split' but just while loop instead. Here is my code.Here is how it works:
Just because I couldn't find this solution here. You can use 'sent_tokenize' method from nltk.And the output


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html
