Natural Text
How does input() work as a parameter to range() in Python? For example:Say the user inputs multiple numbers 10 and 2 or more literally type "10 2" What range does the for loop use then? Is it (0,10), (0,2) or something else? Or, said differently, which number does the range use for the upper limit if the user inputs multiple numbers? More generally, I am trying to understand the purpose of the for loop here and why the code can't just be:
This pattern is used when you want to read n lines from the input, for example the input is:The first input will determine how many times the for loop needs to be run to read all the lines.For a single line of input like "10 2" you don't need to use a loop.
input() values will be stored as str. It all comes down to what the user inputs. The piece of code you provided is very bad, because the user has to guess what to input and when. But the logic works as follows:If you type in a single value, then int(input()) will convert that value to integer. For example, if you input 2, then input() will hold the string "2" and int("2") will yield integer 2.If you have multiple values, then you cannot convert to int right away, because what the hell does int("2 10") mean? That is why you have to use .split(), to separate these multiple values in many singular values. For example, if you run x = input() and type in 2 10, then x will hold the string "2 10". Now, "2 10".split() yields the list of strings ["2", "10"]. The piece of code map(int,input().split()) comes in to convert this list of strings to a list of integers. It maps each value to a new value using the function int to transform it.Now that this is established, it becomes easier to understand how this works in a for loop using range. The range type, as per docs, may have one parameter stop or three arguments (start, stop [, step]) in its constructor. These arguments are all integers.Thus, the values from input() have to fit this structure. If you type in 2 10 in input, and try to do range("2 10"), you'll receive an error. Because you are passing one argument of type str. That is why you have to convert to integer first. But you cannot convert "2 10" to integer right away, as we just discussed. That is why you have to split first, and then convert each value to int, and just then pass these as arguments to range().So, to summarize, given x = input() and you type in 2 10, here is what does not work:what does work:
The first input() will determine the stop condition of the for loopWhich means the first input() determines the number of time your for loop will be executedOther input() will assign the values to a and b as string The above is equivalent to:  But if the first input() is given as "10 10" then the code will throw you an error something like the string can not be converted to intThe a,b=map(int,input().split()) means you are expecting an input of two numbers separated by spaces and these inputs will be given exactly stop number of times
To begin with, a good thing to know is that, in python, functions are evaluated "from the inside out". That means that if your code is  function1(function2(0)) then python will first try to  compute function2(0) and then give the result to function1. In your case it means python will evaluate first input then int using what came out of input then range with what came out of int.So input doesn't behave any different than usual in that range function. Whatever the user types will be passed as a string to the int function. That means that if the user types "10 2" int will raise a value error as "10 2" can't be converted to an integer and the code will stop there.The only way for the code to proceed is for the user to type something that can be converted to an int and then range will work as you expect.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#range
