Natural Text
I am trying to train a fasttext classifier in windows using fasttext python package. I have a utf8 file with lines like When I runfasttext.supervised('data.train.txt','model', label_prefix='__label__', dim=300, epoch=50, min_count=1, ws=3, minn=4, pretrained_vectors='wiki.simple.vec')I got the following errorAnd when I check the file types in my directory, I gotAlso, when I try to train the same the classifier with the same training file in MacOs it works fine. I am trying to understand why that txt file cannot be read.Thanks!
TL;DR: Use the os module to safely construct paths, especially in Python 2The error indicated that the file can't be loaded. Since the only difference between your environments is the operating system, then the clue is that you're not properly locating the file, because each OS handles paths differently. I feel this is a mistake most python programmers make at least once, because it's unexpected. You can hardcode paths, but then you'll have a problem down the road if you ever use things cross platform. In my case, sometimes I develop something quickly in Windows, but then deploy large scale on a *nix platform.I suggest instead getting used to using the os module, because it will work across platforms. said in a comment that they had a path of "myfolder\nfolder\tfolder"; by trying to construct their own strings for a path instead of using the os module.. on windows even if the folder's didn't start with the newline \n and the tab \t it still wouldn't have worked, because windows paths need to escape the slash (\). Use os, and you don't have to know that. Usually, you'll be using relative paths from your project root, not absolute paths. Those are easier, the root of the current OS is what's a little trickier (you can find that answer here)(I'm providing the full answer as we figured out from the comments)Edit: Maybe python 3 has something this link says is better than os, pathlib. I've never used python 3 so I can't say. 
It took me a little time to create an environment to test your code. But what I did and worked for me in Windows was installing fastText in Cygwin. I hope this answer, somehow be useful for someone with a similar issue.EnvironmentWinwdows 10CYGWIN_NT-10.0 DESKTOP-RR909JI 2.10.0(0.325/5/3) 2018-02-02 15:16 x86_64 gcc-g++: 7.3 | gcc-core 7.3 Python 2.7 | Python2-Cython  0.25.2 | python2pip | Python2-develpip install fastTextFilesfastest_ie.pyI've downloaded the pre-trained word vectors (wiki.simple.vec) from here.I've copied your input example in data.txt and made a version with UTF-16 data.train.txt After executing your code snippet, it took a while but a file was generated, but it only happened with the ASCII text file:it has lots of strings:When trying with UTF-16It didn't generate the file, but also didn't finished the process, it just kept running without finalization.So we can say, it failed.Despite fastText says UTF-8 it's supported:where data.txt is a training file containing UTF-8 encoded text. By  default the word vectors will take into account character n-grams from  3 to 6 characters. At the end of optimization the program will save  two files: model.bin and model.vec. model.vec is a text file  containing the word vectors, one per line. model.bin is a binary file  containing the parameters of the model along with the dictionary and  all hyper parameters. The binary file can be used later to compute  word vectors or to restart the optimization.It could happend that version I'm installing through Cygwin is somehow, different.And also after reading this question in stackoverflow I would like to ask: Have you tried changing the file to ASCII and test what happen?All my files were in the same root directory.I don't know fastText but I wanted to execute your code, which works. I had issues with the gcc libraries, I had to install same version for g++ and core.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html
