Natural Text
I am creating an app in Kivy. I am creating a login page that allows users to enter a password and user name in order to verify that they have previously used my application. I am storing usernames and passwords in a MySQL database called 'users', and the table is called 'login' that stores their username and password information in two columns. I am using the pymysql library to interact with my Python code and my MySQL database. In my Python code I am using the fetchall() method to get all of the username and password columns and rows from MySQL, and storing that data in a variable. When I print out that data I get a list of a dictionary that displays the following:As you can see in MySQL I created a couple sample usernames and sample passwords that when using the fetchall() method are stored within a dictionary within a list. Next I created in Kivy a textinput box for username, and a textinput box for password. I stored the user input in variables for username and password like below:Then after I use the fetchall() method I check to see whether or not the username and password that the user entered match a username or password that is already in my code. However, that code is not returning anything at all. It is as if Python cannot track the username that was entered by the user, and cannot check to see if it is in the results that I get after using the fetchall method. I even tried storing the results in a list, and then asking Python to check if the username and password string are anywhere in the list. However, I get the same issue when I enter that. Python does nothing, and will not perform the conditional statement. I am connect to pymysql and my MySQL database, and stored all of my login information in a module and imported it. I know that I am properly connected because when I print the dictionary within the list, It gets me all of the information that I stored in MySQL. Here is my full code below, minus the imports: 
According to the docs:x in s evaluates to True if x is a member of s, and False otherwise.The members of records are the two dicts, yet self.username is a str.  Because records has no str's that are members, self.username cannot be in the records list.Instead, you need to do something like this:Output:(But note: that password is not valid for that username)To check for a valid username and a matching password, you need to do this:When you tried this:all you did was move each dict into another list, and once again a str type is never going to be found in a list of dict types.  If you had something like this:Then you would see the output 'yes':In this case, the three members of records are two dict's and a str.The docs go on to say:in tests whether the dictionary has a given key.That means you can write things like this:But that doesn't help you.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#membership-test-operations
