Natural Text
I'm super new to programming and I'm learning python.  I am excited to announce that I have written 3 short programs so far.  I am experimenting with while and for loops but can't get either implemented into my programs.  Here is my pseudocode trying to use a for loop for the first time.  Declare countRun leapyearprogram3Count + 1 = CountGo back to line 2I appreciate that there are multiple ways of doing this (range, xrange, while, etc.) and I am trying to understand how a for loop works and how to implement it in more than just the following code.I can't seem to grasp why this keeps giving me errors.  I have given me an error saying there is something wrong with the code immediately following the for command the code it says "for count >= 5 & count <= 0:" has an invalid syntax error highlighting the "="Thank you for your interest in helping me learn how to use for!
Thomas. Don't worry about the harsh tries at the beginning of your journey. I suggest you take a look at The Python Tutorial, a tutorial for beginners, at the official Python documentation. Here is the link to the explanation of the for loop. For now, keep this in mind: one of the most basic concepts of a programming language (in fact, even of human language) is the syntax. It means everything has its rightful place in a sentence, so a meaning can be taken out of this sentence. In Python, the for loop has the following basic syntax:Everything I put inside brackets you can modify. See that the words for and in (and also the colon at the end) are mandatory. You have to keep them in this setup. As I said, take a look at The Python Tutorial, at your own pace, from the beginning to the end. It will give you a boost in learning Python through the best source of information: the official Python documentation. 
I learned proper syntax and I was able to come up with this.  Thanks everyone who posted suggestions on learning about for.
The for loop syntax is wrong and there is no need to use it here. Refer the Python Wiki hereSee this in action here
import calendarprint ("Welcome to my leap year program")print ("You may type any year and I will tell you if it is a leap year")


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#for-statements
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#indentation
