Natural Text
I need to create a program that finds the base and exponent of a single number given that the exponent is less than 7 and greater than 1. I am using python 2.7.My code is as follows:Can anyone give me any general advice on this issue? Right now I am always receiving the 'else' statement which is not correct.
First, the reason you're always hitting the else is that you're doing the if check after the loop is over. So, instead of checking each value, you're just checking the very last values.You want to print the "Yes" answer if any value matches, and the "No" only if all values fail. For that, you need to put the if inside the loop, and break as soon as you find the first success (unless you want to print all matches, instead of just the first one), and then the else becomes something you do only if you didn't find any of them.You can use an else: with a while:, which gets run only if you didn't break anywhere. But many people find that confusing, so it might be simpler to just return instead of break on success, and just always print the failure message if you finish the loop.Meanwhile, I think what you're hoping to do is handle all num values from inputNumber to 0, and, for each one, all pwr values from 1 to 7. To do that, you need a nested loop.While we're at it, using a for loop is a whole lot easier than using a while loop around a variable that you initialize and +1 or -1 each time through.Putting all of that together:You can simplify this further.What you really want is all combinations of any num in range, and any pwr in range. You don't care about how the nesting works, you just want all the combinations. In mathematical terms, you want to loop over the cartesian product of the two ranges. The function itertools.product does exactly that. So:As a side note, there are two things that make this code harder to read for no good reason.First, if you want to print out an expression, it's a lot easier to use format (or %) than to manually convert things to strings and concatenate them together. Formatting lets you see what the output will look like, instead of having to figure it out, and it takes care of the stringifying and related stuff automatically.Second, adding parentheses where they're not needed makes the code harder to read. The parentheses around your print expression makes your code look like Python 3, but it's actually Python 2. And the parentheses around each string inside the expression are even worse—at first glance, it looks like those are supposed to be inside the quotes. Even the parentheses in your test expression, (num) > 0 and (0 < pwr < 7), force the reader to pause—normally, parentheses like that are used to override the normal way operators combine together, so you have to think through what would be wrong with the normal num > 0 and 0 < pwr < 7 and how the parentheses make it different, only to eventually figure out that it's actually exactly the same.Anyway, compare these two and see which one is easier to follow:


Answer URL
