Natural Text
I'm writing a VERY basic roulette simulator in python. At the moment, I'm only focusing on red/black betting (basically the same as betting on heads or tails, using a coin).My code has various issues. Please forgive my very basic knowledge of the language.First issue so far: the bet_too_much function doesn't work. Whatever amount I input, the program states it's too much (ie: 'bet' is always greater than 'money'). Why?Second issue so far: when I want to add/subtract 'bet' to/from 'money' by using, for example:    money += betpython treats this as summing an int with a string (at least I think it does) rather than summing two variables. Why is this?Any help would be appreciated.Thanks
Both things happen because Python does not do implicit conversions. You have to tell it explicitly that you want something to be an integer, it will not do it for you.So, for the first issue:has to bebecause you do not want to compare a string with an integer (you can, but with the results you're getting right now).For the second, you have to be explicit as well:(of course, if you already converted bet to an int, you're fine).Javascript is notorious for doing this implicit conversions, so if you have happen to be familiar with that or a language that is similar, forget about that and be explicit about the type you're using. Which, on the whole, is safer.
The raw_input() function returns a string value, but money is an integer. Comparing strings to numbers always ends up with Python 2 ordering numbers as smaller than strings.Convert the result of raw_input() to an integer:This may throw a ValueError exception if the input given is not a valid number; you may want to catch that exception and tell the user to enter a number instead:
You are comparing the string you get from raw_input("> ") with a integer. This will not end well.Try this function instead (havent tested it fully):EDIT: changed to "except ValueError" according to comment. I know I am a bit lazy on the except handling part of python programing, but perhaps I should not teach that to others :-)


Answer URL
