Natural Text
I am in need of a way to get the binary representation of a string in python. e.g. Is there a module of some neat way of doing this?
Something like this?
As a more pythonic way you can first convert your string to byte array then use bin function within map :Or you can join it:Note that in python3 you need to specify an encoding for bytearray function :You can also use binascii module in python 2:hexlify return the hexadecimal representation of the binary data then you can convert to int by specifying 16 as its base then convert it to binary with bin.
You can access the code values for the characters in your string using the ord() built-in function.  If you then need to format this in binary, the string.format() method will do the job.(Thanks to Ashwini Chaudhary for posting that code snippet.)While the above code works in Python 3, this matter gets more complicated if you're assuming any encoding other than UTF-8.  In Python 2, strings are byte sequences, and ASCII encoding is assumed by default.  In Python 3, strings are assumed to be Unicode, and there's a separate bytes type that acts more like a Python 2 string.  If you wish to assume any encoding other than UTF-8, you'll need to specify the encoding.In Python 3, then, you can do something like this:The differences between UTF-8 and ascii encoding won't be obvious for simple alphanumeric strings, but will become important if you're processing text that includes characters not in the ascii character set.
We just need to encode it.
This is an update for the existing answers which used bytearray() and can not work that way anymore:Because, as explained in the link above, if the source is a string,  you must also give the encoding:
method_b is substantially more efficient at converting to a byte array because it makes low level function calls instead of manually transforming every character to an integer, and then converting that integer into its binary value.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#func-bytearray
