Natural Text
I know it's pretty simple but im having a hard time finding the largest and smallest number out of three numbers in python.Here is my code:* im not allowed to use the built in functions min and max so i have to use if and else...)*i get several of error messages such as: local variable maxn and minn are not used and also shadow name minn and maxn from outer scope. im pretty new to this so i would love to get some help. Thanks a lot in advance!
Other than minor indentation problems which I'm sure were introduced when you pasted the code into your question, your code works. The "errors" you're getting aren't errors; they're warnings from your IDE and you can safely ignore them.
You can do this with a simple sorting network.outputAs Simon mentions in the comments, my sort3 function isn't written in the usual Python style. Here it is in PEP-0008 compliant form.
Option 1:Option 2: WIth list:

Store them in list to make it easier on yourself and then use the built in Python functions to extract the min and max.Built in functionsList, Arrays, and Other Data StructuresEdit: I saw that you're not allows to use built in functions, this will return a tuple of (min, max) based on an array of values.
If there is always 3 integers being submitted then I just sort a list and use the first and last index. Since you are not allowed to use min and max I'm using sortedmodding my answer to meed conditional requirements
You could make it more dense as well, increasing readability and still following usual python conventions, and way not expand it to allow for arbitrary many integers..  gives:If you are not allowed to use list or such, well then, use the why python handles arguments, surely your teachers don't what you to change python. You can simply tell python to not unpack the arguments you summit, and instead keep them in form that was inputed.
An issue is the maxn and minn are not defined in the scope, try inserting these lines I your code to initialize the maxn and minn variables:So now you code looks like this:That should fix the local variable warning, for more information on scope consult the Python Docs


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/executionmodel.html
