Natural Text
I am running a very simple example in Python but I get some errors.When I run this piece of code:I get this error:What is the cause of this problem?
When you did you explicitly told Python that the name max refers to that max from audioop. There's no way you can have one name that refers to two different things, so the built-in max function became "masked" or "shadowed" by the one from audioop. The masked function object is still accessible by its full name __builtins__.max, but we generally avoid using the full name for built-in objects, since they just make the code look cluttered, but they're handy in emergencies, and other special situations.The way to avoid name collisions like that is to use the simplest form of the import statement:and then you can access it's max function using the fully-qualified name audioop.max. If you want to frequently use names from a module and don't want to type its full name all the time you can give the module a short name when you import it, eg:And then you'd refer to it's max function with au.max.I suggest that you read the section on Python Scopes and Namespaces in the official Python tutorial. In fact, it's a good idea to read the whole tutorial. It's not aimed at someone who is totally new to programming, it assumes that you already have some coding experience (preferably in the C / C++ / Java family), so you shouldn't find it too simple. :)I also recommend that you read this article: Facts and myths about Python names and values, which was written by SO veteran Ned Batchelder. It is a good explanation of Python's data model, which works quite differently to what you are used to in Java. A brief summary of these essential ideas, with nice diagrams can be found at Other languages have "variables", Python has "names".
Your code works fine. Is this the entire program or is it a part of a huge one. If so provide the entire code.In case if it's the entire program you should try Restarting your Kernel.
This is something I just found on the Internet to unload an import, Hope this'll do the trick


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#python-scopes-and-namespaces
