Natural Text
In python to open a file we write with open(filename) as f: or f=open(filename). Can anyone please give more knowledge of what is f and what it will do?
When you write F = open(filename) in Python, you are saving the object returned by the call to open() on filename into a variable.  The variable is called F, in your case, but it could be file or puppy if you wanted.  The open function in Python returns a Python file object (Python glossary on file object). So after that declaration, F is a file object - but I think your question was more about whether F was a Python keyword that contributed to the code, and I think you can see now that the answer to that is "No, it is an arbitrary variable name" basically.  It is not quite an arbitrary variable name - people use F a lot (so I can see why you thought it was a keyword), but it's used frequently in this instatiation because people are thinking 'F' for 'file'.  You can learn more about the open function over here in its documentation.
f is file object that contain the state of the filefew methods: f.mode - The mode attribute of a file object tells you in which mode  the file was opened.f.name - The name attribute of a file object tells you the name of the  file that the file object has open.f.closed - The closed attribute of a file object indicates whether the  object has a file open or not. In this case, the file is still open  (closed is False).f.close() - To close a file, call the close method of the file object.f.seek(0) - The seek method of a file object moves to another position  in the open filef.tell() - The tell method of a file object tells you your current  position in the open filef.read() - T0 read the content of file
It means that you are assigning to a variable named F a file object wrapper. It's done to make further operations on that same instance file object.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-file-object
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#open
