Natural Text
I am trying to remove numbers that contain the 1 or 7 digits in them. To avoid    "ValueError: list.remove(x): x not in list", I added the "except ValueError: pass". However, I now have the "SyntaxError: invalid syntax".
First, range objects are immutable, which means you cannot remove an element from a range object. Moreover, it is now possible to remove elements from a sequence you are iterating over.Second, the except block must be related to a try block containing the code that may generated the error that is caught with the except.What I suggest you is to create a new list with the elements you want to keep (that is without 1 and 7 in it). You can also simplify the check for inclusion of 1 and 7 using the in operator.
except is part of a special block called try-except. This is an example of usage:So to make your block actually catch raised exceptions, you need to wrap the part that can possibly cause an exception in a try block and follow it up with one or more except blocks, like this:
If you use except you also need try. For in depth information, check the documentation on error handling out. Also, to check if a character is in a string you can use the in keyword. Additionally changing a list while iterating over it can have strange effects. So you should collect all numbers you want to remove in the first run and then iterate over the list of numbers to remove and remove them from the list.Last you cannot remove from a range object, only from a list, that's why you have to turn it into one. The final code can look something like this:Edit: As Donkey Kong pointed out, it can also be done using pythons list comprehension and checking if 1 or 7 is in the number can be accomplished using the build-in any function. This way it it easy to check for more and other digits as well. The the code provided by Donkey Kong looks like this:Edit 2: Using if instead of any in the list comprehension is faster. This was pointed out by juanpa.arrivillaga. Here is his the code for this:
ValueError shows the element you trying to remove in the list not exists in the list. And You have to use try and execpt. That's why it's shows invalid syntax.But your problem you can implement like this. Check the first 10 elements of filtered list. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html
