Natural Text
I have a custom class,The class is not iterable or indexable or anything like that. If at all possible, I would like to keep it that way. Is it possible to have something like the following work?What got me thinking about this is that  and  are listed as "Common Sequence Operations" in the docs. Since  is considered to be a sequence type by the very same docs, I was thinking that there must be some sort of optimization that is possible for , and that perhaps I could take advantage of it.Perhaps there is a magic method that I am not aware of that would enable this?
Yes.  When  takes one arguments it assumes it to be an iterable, iterates over it and takes the minimum value. So,Should work.Additional Note: If you don't want to use , I don't know of way to do that.  You probably want to create your own min function, that calls some  method if there is one in the argument it is passed to and calls the old  else.
There are no  and  special methods*. This is kind of a shame since  has seen some pretty nice optimizations in Python 3. You can do this: But don't try this unless you want to wait a long time: However creating your own / functions is a pretty good idea, as suggested by Lærne. Here is how I would do it. UPDATE: removed the dunder name  in favor of , as recommended by PEP 8:Never invent such names; only use them as documentedCode:I think this way is maybe a little bit better because it handles some corner cases the other answer hasn't considered. Note that an iterable object with a  method will still be consumed by  as per usual, but the return value is overridden by the special method. HOWEVER, if the  method requires the iterator to still be available for consumption, this will need to be tweaked because the iterator is getting consumed by  first. Note also that if the  method is simply implemented by calling , things will still work fine (even though the iterator was consumed; this is because  raises a  in this case). * Such methods are often called "magic", but this is not the preferred terminology. 
Since  is considered to be a sequence type by the very same docs, I was thinking that there must be some sort of optimization that is possible for , and that perhaps I could take advantage of it.There's no optimization going on for ranges and there are no specialized magic methods for /. If you peek at the implementation for / you'll see that after some argument parsing is done, a call to  (i.e  ) is made to grab an iterator:then calls to  (i.e ) are performed in a loop to grab values for comparisons:Is it possible to have something like the following work?No, if you want to use the built-in * the only option you have is implementing the iterator protocol.*By patching , you can of-course, make it do anything you want. Obviously at the cost of operating in Pythonland. If, though, you think you can utilize some optimizations, I'd suggest you create a  method rather than re-defining the built-in .In addition, if you only have ints as instance variables and you don't mind a different call, you can always use  to grab the  and then supply it's  to :


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#min
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#max
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#common-sequence-operations
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#range
