Natural Text
I am attempting to use Brickman to use Python coding on a LEGO EV3. When I try to run my code I get the following errorHere is my code. I am not sure what is triggering this error.
Humor is usually not welcome on stackoverflow, but there are exceptions from this rule so let's this answer be such exception. But let's go back to answering the actual question: I have to admit that I write this fully correct answer with a chuckle :) :The cause of the SyntaxError is an invalid character in identifier.The invalid character in the identifier is the character: [ ’ ]U+2019  ’   e2 80 99    RIGHT SINGLE QUOTATION MARKHere Python code with which you can find out for yourself details about the "character" which is causing the trouble: what prints: 8217, 0x2019 , 0b10000000011001Check out this here http://www.utf8-chartable.de/unicode-utf8-table.plwhere I have got the information about the character from, and this here https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#identifiersfor more detailed information about which characters are allowed in an indentifier, because not all are and apparently this one does not belong to the range of allowed characters. By the way: this "character" is NOT a one byte character like it is for ASCII characters. How this character is encoded in UTF-8 is specified in the Unicode table (e2 80 99). AND ... in the entire code you have provided in the question there is no trace of what you have specified to cause the error message. How you can fix that?Just replace these strange quotes with standard quotes " "ADDENDUM: The strange quotes should be probably standard quotes around a string with a word put into the list. As the Python interpreter is running into this strange quotes it assumes they are part of a variable name (identifier) and not part of a string specification. That is the reason for the confusing error message as you don't see from the code at the first glance WHY the Python interpreter thinks it deals with an variable name (identifier) and not a quoted section of text which should be turned into a Python string. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#identifiers
