Natural Text
I wrote the following python code. It takes a list of English words I found on the internet and makes them a list so that I can use them for hangman. Well my problem is that every time I run this program and successfully guess the word, it doesn't break out of the while loop. It just keeps going. I can't figure out why for the life of me. Anyone have any clue as to why it isn't printing the final message to the winner? 
 in your top-level code and  in  function are two different variables. A function is a separate namespace (else a function using a variable with common name like  would wreak havoc in other code).This can be solved by a  declaration, but it's a very bad style. Same applies to variables like  and .Instead, you should return the value from the  function:BTW your check for all letters being guessed can be made a one-liner:
The immediate issue is that  is not setting  regardless of the input. If you guess with the string "foo" thenwill make  a list with one item, which is a string. I think what you were trying to do wasWhich will add each letter in  to the  list.Two points also worth mentioning: will consider the game won if you guess an anagram of the word in in questions e.g. "oof" will be considered a correct solution if the word is "foo" is reading every even line of the input file, and adding it to the  list after removing any characters it has in common with the following word. You want to do  instead.
It's all about scope.  used in  is define in the local scope. If you want to affect  declared in the global scope you will have to either pass it to  as a parameter or use the  keyword before modifying . See below: Output with this change:
You're trying to communicate using the global variable , but the  function doesn't gave a  line, so it is setting a variable local to  named  rather than the global variable.My suggestion would be, rather than adding  to , to return either  or  from  (based on whether or not the user has won) and use that to end the loop.Here is an alternative version of your code:
Well, I know that my answer is a little late but here's my solution:Key points:A list comprehension is used to put the words in a listSets are used to keep a group of letters without duplicates.A conditional expression is used to choose if a letter will be shown or or a  Truth testing can be used to simplify the verification of certain informationYou are using expressions like  like in C where True equals 1 and False equals 0. In Python, a variable can be a boolean. You can use it directly in a  statement


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#list-comprehensions
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#set-types-set-frozenset
https://docs.python.org/3/faq/programming.html#is-there-an-equivalent-of-c-s-ternary-operator
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#truth-value-testing
