Natural Text
I'm trying to get threading to work with a Socket network to accept clients. I had that working fine, but now I have discovered an issue.Here is the code:Now this should return something like this, which it does on all the IDEs I have tried (PyCharm, Sublime text editor, etc.):However, in Python's own IDLE, the threading seems unable to print anything until I press Enter, with the exact same code, like so:This isn't what I want because my code will run in Python IDLE once its finished, so it needs to work here because of this. TLDR:Code runs differently in Python IDLE than in other IDEs, with the exact same code. See the above code examples.
As IDLE's name implies, it is primarily a development (and learning) environment.  It is aimed especially at beginners.  Use for running finished code is at best secondary, and is usually not an advantage.The IDLE Doc chapter, which can be viewed in IDLE itself with Help => IDLE Help, has a subsection (3.3) IDLE-console differences.  It beginsWith rare exceptions, the result of executing Python code with IDLE is intended to be the same as executing the same code in a console window. However, the different interface and operation occasionally affect visible results.The big difference in operation is that your code is executed in a separate Python process, with standard input and output going through a socket connection.   This means that all stdout output from your program goes through IDLE code, which inserts it in a tk Text widget, rather than being sent directly to the OS screen manager.In the case of input(), IDLE stops displaying output until after the the user hits return.  (This is true even with an empty prompt.) I consider this an improvement over having output splattered in the middle of user input.  Your code cannot run as is, but the following does.import threading, timeIn IDLE 3.7.0b3 on Win10, I see something like(I don't know why the '\n' after 'thread' is suppressed.)In Command Prompt I seeThe same issue occurs when inputting code after >>>:.  Change my code toWith IDLE:In Command Prompt entering the same header with the same timing:If I better understood the relevant IDLE code, I would have the interrupt line inserted on a line before the prompt.  I might also do the same during input().  Fortunately, output from threads or async tasks is not common, especially for beginners.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/idle.html
