Natural Text
This is probably a trivial question, but how do I parallelize the following loop in python?I know how to start single threads in Python but I don't know how to "collect" the results. Multiple processes would be fine too - whatever is easiest for this case. I'm using currently Linux but the code should run on Windows and Mac as-well.What's the easiest way to parallelize this code?
Using multiple threads on CPython won't give you better performance for pure-Python code due to the global interpreter lock (GIL).  I suggest using the multiprocessing module instead:Note that this won't work in the interactive interpreter.To avoid the usual FUD around the GIL: There wouldn't be any advantage to using threads for this example anyway.  You want to use processes here, not threads, because they avoid a whole bunch of problems.
To parallelize a simple for loop, joblib brings a lot of value to raw use of multiprocessing. Not only the short syntax, but also things like transparent bunching of iterations when they are very fast (to remove the overhead) or capturing of the traceback of the child process, to have better error reporting.Disclaimer: I am the original author of joblib.
What's the easiest way to parallelize this code?I really like concurrent.futures for this, available in Python3 since version 3.2 - and via backport to 2.6 and 2.7 on PyPi.You can use threads or processes and use the exact same interface.MultiprocessingPut this in a file - futuretest.py:And here's the output:MultithreadingNow change ProcessPoolExecutor to ThreadPoolExecutor, and run the module again:Now you have done both multithreading and multiprocessing! Note on performance and using both together.Sampling is far too small to compare the results.However, I suspect that multithreading will be faster than multiprocessing in general, especially on Windows, since Windows doesn't support forking so each new process has to take time to launch. On Linux or Mac they'll probably be closer.You can nest multiple threads inside multiple processes, but it's recommended to not use multiple threads to spin off multiple processes. 
The above works beautifully on my machine (Ubuntu, package joblib was pre-installed, but can be installed via pip install joblib).Taken from https://blog.dominodatalab.com/simple-parallelization/
There are a number of advantages to using Ray:You can parallelize over multiple machines in addition to multiple cores (with the same code).Efficient handling of numerical data through shared memory (and zero-copy serialization).High task throughput with distributed scheduling.Fault tolerance.In your case, you could start Ray and define a remote functionand then invoke it in parallelTo run the same example on a cluster, the only line that would change would be the call to ray.init(). The relevant documentation can be found here.Note that I'm helping to develop Ray.
why dont you use threads, and one mutex to protect one global list?keep in mind, you will be as fast as your slowest thread
This could be useful when implementing multiprocessing and parallel/ distributed computing in Python.YouTube tutorial on using techila packageTechila is a distributed computing middleware, which integrates directly with Python using the techila package. The peach function in the package can be useful in parallelizing loop structures. (Following code snippet is from the Techila Community Forums)
Let's say we have an async functionThat needs to be run on a large array. Some attributes are being passed to the program and some are used from property of dictionary element in the array.
very simple example of parallel processing is
I found joblib is very useful with me. Please see following example:n_jobs=-1: use all available cores
Have a look at this;http://docs.python.org/library/queue.htmlThis might not be the right way to do it, but I'd do something like;Actual code;Hope that helps.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html
