Natural Text
I have the following directory structure:And in , I need to import .In order to do that, in  I add the path of  to the system paths.Here is what I started off with:Then I figured that  is a valid separator in pretty much every OS, so I changed it to:Then I figured that  is also a valid syntax in pretty much every OS, so I changed it to:My questions:Are my assumptions above correct, and will the code run correctly on every OS?In my last change, I essentially add a slightly longer path to the system paths. More precisely -  instead of . Is the any runtime impact to this? I suppose that every  statement might be executed slightly slower, but even if so, that would be minor. Is there any good reason not to do it this way?Thank you!
If you're writing code to span multiple Operating Systems it's best not to try to construct the paths yourself.  Between Linux and Windows you immediately run into the forward vs backwards slash issue, just as an example.I'd recommend looking into the Python  library.  It handles generating paths for different operating systems.https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.htmlThis is a great blog about this subject and how to use the library:https://medium.com/@ageitgey/python-3-quick-tip-the-easy-way-to-deal-with-file-paths-on-windows-mac-and-linux-11a072b58d5fUPDATE:Updating this with a more specific answer.Regarding the directory paths, as long as you're not building the paths yourself (using a utility such as pathlib) the paths you've created should be fine.  Linux, Mac, and Windows all support relative paths (both mac and linux are Unix ~based of course).As for whether it's efficient, unless you're frequently dynamically loading or reloading your source files (which is not common) most files are loaded into memory before the code is run, so there would be no performance impact on setting up the file paths in this way.
Use  for OS independent path separator instead of  Example: Or instead you can make CommonFolder as python package by just placing a empty file by name  inside CommonFolder. After that you can simply  in  as:-


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/import.html#regular-packages
