Natural Text
I'm making a program that allows the user to log loot they receive from monsters in an MMO. I have the drop tables for each monster stored in text files. I've tried a few different formats but I still can't pin down exactly how to take that information into python and store it into a list of lists of lists. The text file is formatted like thisThe item # is the name of the item, the numbers are different quantities that can be dropped, and the s/ns is whether the item is stackable or not stackable in game. I want the entire drop table of the monster to be stored in a list called currentDropTable so that I can reference the names and quantities of the items to pull photos and log the quantities dropped and stuff. The list for the above example should look like thisThat way, I can reference currentDropTable[0][0] to get the name of an item, or if I want to log a drop of 4 of item 1, I can use currentDropTable[0][1][0]. I hope this makes sense, I've tried the following and it almost works, but I don't know what to add or change to get the result I want. This prints everything properly except the quantities are still an entity without being a list, so it would look likeI've tried nesting another for j in i, split(',') but then that breaks up everything, not just the list of quantities. I hope I was clear, if I need to clarify anything let me know. This is the first time I've posted on here, usually I can just find another solution from the past but I haven't been able to find anyone who is trying to do or doing what I want to do. Thank you.
You want to split only the second entity by  so you don't need another loop. Since you know that  returns a list of 3 items, you can simply change your innermost for-loop as follows,Here you replace the second element of  with a list of the quantities.
You only need to split second element from that list.
The first thing I feel bound to say is that it's usually a good idea to avoid using  variables in any language. Errors involving them can be hard to track down. In fact you could simply omit that function  from your code and do what you need in-line. Then readers aren't obliged to look elsewhere to find out what it does.And here's yet another way to parse those lines! :) Look for the asterisks then use their positions to select what you want.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.namedtuple
