Natural Text
Why do I receive a syntax error for the following one liner python code?The following code works just fineHow can I change my one line to execute my intended script on a single line from the command line?
One option to work around this limitation is to specify the command with the  format using the newline escape sequence .Note: this is supported by shells such as bash and zsh, but is not valid POSIX sh.As mentioned by @slaadvak, there are some other workarounds here: Executing Python multi-line statements in the one-line command-line
The problem isn't with the import statement specifically, its that you have anything before a control flow statement. This won't work, either:According to the Python reference (https://docs.python.org/2/reference/compound_stmts.html), ';' can only be used to combine "simple statements" together. In this case you're combining the simple statement , with .  isn't a simple statement, because it's introducing flow control, and is therefore a compound statement. At least that's how I interpret the documentation.Here's the full text from the Python reference:Compound statements consist of one or more ‘clauses.’ A clause  consists of a header and a ‘suite.’ The clause headers of a particular  compound statement are all at the same indentation level. Each clause  header begins with a uniquely identifying keyword and ends with a  colon. A suite is a group of statements controlled by a clause. A  suite can be one or more semicolon-separated simple statements on the  same line as the header, following the header’s colon, or it can be  one or more indented statements on subsequent lines
You can embed newlines directly in the argument.
Why do I receive a syntax error for the following one liner python code?Python grammar might forbid .  argument is probably is interpreted as : Note: there is a newline at the end of .  is not  it can't follow another  after . A newline is necessary to introduce  after .It is not an issue because  allows multiline arguments, just don't close the opening single quote until you done e.g.:Note:  are printed by the shell itself here. It is not entered by hand.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/grammar.html
