Natural Text
I am a beginner in Python, so please be... kind?Anyway, I need use a static method to call another method, which requires the use of "self" (and thus, a normal method I believe). I am working with Telethon, a Python implementation of Telegram. I have tried other questions on SO, but I just can't seem to find a solution to my problem.An overview of the program (please correct me if I'm wrong):1) interactive_telegram_client is a child class of telegram_client, and it creates an instance.2) When the InteractiveTelegramClient runs, it adds an update_handler  to constantly check for messages received/sent, and prints it to screen Now, my aim here is to send back an auto-reply message upon receiving a message. Thus, I think that adding a call to method  in the  method would serve my needs.However, as you can see, I require the  to invoke this function (based on the readme, where I assume  to refer to the same thing as ). Since the method  is a static one,  is not passed through, and as such I cannot invoke the call as such.My possible strategies which have failed include:1) Instantiating a new client for the auto-reply- Creating a new client/conversation for each reply...2) Making all the methods non-static- Involves a tremendous amount of work since other methods modified as well3) Observer pattern (sounds like a good idea, I tried, but due to a lack of skills, not succeeded)I was wondering if there's any other way to tackle this problem? Or perhaps it's actually easy, just that I have some misconception somewhere?Forgot to mention that due to some restrictions on my project, I can only use Telethon, as opposed to looking at other alternatives. Adopting another library (like an existing auto-reply one) is allowed, though I did not really look into that since merging that and Telethon may be too difficult for me...
based on the readme, where I assume client to refer to the same thing as selfCorrect, since the  subclasses the  and hence,  is an instance of the extended client.Instantiating a new client for the auto-reply - Creating a new client/conversation for each replyThis would require you to create another authorization and send another code request to login, because you can't work with the same  at the same time.Making all the methods non-static - Involves a tremendous amount of work since other methods modified as wellIt doesn't require such amount of work. Consider the following example:Is equivalent to:It doesn't matter whether you use  or the class name to refer to a static method from within the class. Since the  already uses , all you would have to do would be changing:forFor more on the  decorator, you can refer to the docs.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html?highlight=staticmethod#staticmethod
