Natural Text
Hi I have the below from which I am trying to pull data from Outlook using code obtained on StackOverflow. Using the first loop, I am trying to gather all attributes available to the object.Whilst running it I notice the absence of Name which is later called in the 2nd loop, I assume this is due to inheritance. Please can you assist me in finding all attributes available to a class?
Python provides a handy little builtin called dir. I can use that on a class instance to get a list of all the attributes and methods of that class along with some inherited magic methods, such as  , , , etc. You can try this yourself by doing the following:but what you want is: is a class attribute containing tuple of base classes for this class. so if your class has only one base class, this is the answer, but if class has more than one base class, just do same for all elements from that tuple.
Use the  and  built-in functions. refers to the instance of the mother class.Return a proxy object that delegates method calls to a parent or sibling class of type. This is useful for accessing inherited methods that have been overridden in a class. returns a list of the argument's attributes.With an argument, attempt to return a list of valid attributes for that object.Output:The output list contains all the attributes that are defined in the mother class. It mostly contains attributes inherited from  (the attributes between double underscores).If you do not extend the class whose you want to know the attributes, just use  on an instance:
 will show you all the attribute names of .I notice the absence of Name which is later called in the 2nd loopYou use  not  so there is no reason for  to show up from the first loop.  If you want to know all the available attributes on  then do .
Given two classes, Parent and Child, if you want only the inherited attributes you could use the inspect module coupled with :And you can go like this up into the hierarchy however you wish


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#super
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#dir
