Natural Text
I am new to python, so in need of help. I am having a three lists in which the values correspond to each other. As in an excel like belowand so on.Now from this table I want to combine the ID which are having same height.names as in not so important.. How do I do that using python.
To get better answers, check out the formatting tools to make things easier to read.The easiest way to do what you're looking for would be to check out 'groupby' from the 'itertools' package.https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.htmlFirst, assuming all lists are of equal length, put them together into a merged list.newList would look something like this:Now you can use groupby to group everything by height.
Firstly, welcome to StackOverflow!I believe what you're trying to ask is a method to extract the contents of an Excel spreadsheet and use that content to find and combine the ID numbers which have the same height.To do this, you'll need a way to read an Excel spreadsheet in Python.You can do this in two methods:Convert the spreadsheet to a CSV (comma-separated-values) file which can be easily used by Python using the csv module.Use an external library that helps you read from and write to Excel spreadsheets directly, like xlrd and xlwt. As the name suggests, xlrd is a module that lets you read data from the Excel spreadsheet and xlwt lets you write to the Excel spreadsheet.Assuming that you only need to read data from the spreadsheet, I'll share my method which would use the xlrd module.First, install the xlrd module by using the command:Then, in your Python program, import the xlrd module and open the spreadsheet like so:If you have a large file, use the ondemand option along with the above statement, like this:Assuming that the spreadsheet is the first in the Excel workbook, open it like so:This will open the first spreadsheet in the Excel workbook.Now, to access data from the spreadsheet, you'll need to do this:So, in theory, your solution would be roughly similar to this:Now you'll have a list of tuples that can be used to do whatever you like.After this, if you do want to group them by height, referring to user1209675's answer should do well.
You can try this with pandas module from python and using groupby function. see below example.Output:Also if you not bothered about the names column you can simply do that using defaultdict with only id and height column. see below example.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html
