Natural Text
I am new to python. I have installed python 3.7 and created some basic applications. In order to achieve many things, I am required to install that module for example to call a Rest API, I installed requests module. My question is, why doesn't python come with everything already installed? What benefits we are getting with this python's approach? Also, if I deploy my python application on few PCs, do we need to install those modules again on all of these PCs?
These modules don't come with the default Python distribution because they could easily fill up your hard drive up with less useful modules, like user2357112 already pointed out in the comment (on PyPI only are 130.265 packages at the time of this writing, Imagine how fast a server drive can be filled with that).But if you don't want to download the dependencies every time, you have two options to work around this:Option 1: Create your own PyPI module (harder)The process of how to create, package and distribute your own project is already well documented in the official Python docs.In your  file you call the setup constructor (after importing  with )In that constructor you can also set a property called . This property allows you to define dependent packages to yours. Let's take for example you need Requests and Beautiful Soup 4, you'd set the  variable like this:install_requires = ['requests', 'beautifulsoup4']On this way you can also add more packages if you need to.Option 2: Use git submodules (easier)This option would require you to download the packages locally and save them together with your framework in a seperate repository (let's assume we have created a repo called rock for that):With this command you create a new empty folder called rock and register it as the container for this submodule. To get the files in the repo after that, you need to run the update command for submodules:And then you have all needed files to work again. See also the more detailed introduction to git submodules by GitHub.As a side note: If you don't use a version control system yet, I highly recommend you'll already need to have a git command line client installed in order to properly use submodules


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/urllib.html
