Natural Text
I have the following class, a Point objectAnd I have a server (Uses UDP)And my client side is: In the server side, whenever I get the  and print it, I get the following  How can I get the object, instead of this?
First, a caveat. Pickles allow for arbitrary code execution. Do not use this to accept arbitrary connections, and preferably use cryptography to ensure you are only exchanging trusted data. Even then, consider using a safer exchange format.Next, take into account that UDP packets are limited in size. You need to make sure your pickle data is small enough to fit in a UDP packet (the maximum payload size is 65507 bytes). At least when you receive the packet, you'll know you have all the data. Use 65535 as the buffer size to ensure large packets can be fully received.On sending, make sure you don't cross the size limits:and on the other side, use  to turn the pickle data stream back into an object:I urge you strongly to at the very least verify that  is trusted, or you leave yourself open to executing arbitrary code. 65507 bytes is ample space to send a pickle that takes control of your process.If you need to send more data, then you'll need to use TCP instead of UDP, because you'll have to send across data in a specific order, spread across multiple packets, and need for all packets to arrive on the receiving end; TCP provides that layer of reliability. At that point you'd have to prefix your pickle with a fixed number of bytes encoding the size of the pickle, so you can ensure you read that same amount of data again on the other side.
Pickle is not suitable for this purpose.  Consider this warning:Warning The pickle module is not secure against erroneous or  maliciously constructed data. Never unpickle data received from an  untrusted or unauthenticated source.Your protocol lacks any kind of access control so your processes are vulnerable to arbitrary remote code execution attacks.Consider a real network protocol instead.  There are many to choose from.  For example, Cap' Proto.
Solution is to used  as below on the server sideHowever, as suggested by many,  might not be the best solution for such scenarios.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html#pickle.loads
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html
