Natural Text
Control characters I'm talking about can be found here:http://ascii.cl/control-characters.htmI need the control characters as their single character length entity, not represented as an ASCII code, or the plain text of their symbol.See below...As shown above in both sublime and notepad text editors, I need the actual symbols, not their ascii code. So I need the characters as shown in the second invalid_chrs_list.Is there a way to get these symbols, a file somewhere online, or a site that I can copy paste them from?Edit:alternate for loop which would be faster if the check worked:I've tried using ord(char) and chr(char) in if char in invalid_chrs_list: on each of the lists, but am not sure how to compare them to each other to verify a matchEdit - Solution:The list in the code below is the correct list, it is not necessary to use the literals I showed in my images.I was looking in the wrong place for the answer, thank you to @Peteris for pointing me in the right direction.I needed to switch the file mode to text: 'r' or I need to encode the character I'm checking with char.encode() for it to check the literal properly. In my case I need to be opening the file in binary mode so I went with char.encode().
Make a tiny program that simply outputs the bytes you want to a file, converting them to bytes from the ascii code?But I'd bet that you don't really want to copy/paste them as literal characters in your code, it can't work that way for e.g. newline character and others; ascii codes or escaped representations is the proper way to go.
Since I don't have enough reputation to comment, I'll have to leave my comment as an answer.I presume you want the literal characters and not their represented forms, such as \000.  Since plenty of these characters are not printable or visible, storing them in a text files seems pointless.  I may not be fully understanding your need, but it seems you want them in a text file for reference by code?  You certainly will not be able to make much use out of them viewing them in a plain text editor.  How do you want them stored in this file?  One per line, tab delimited?  You'd be better off opening a hex editor and manually coding each byte.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#string-and-bytes-literals
