Natural Text
In Python 3, we are currently learning how to use the 'while' function. The following problem was posed to us in the chapter about 'while' functions, so I would assume I need to use the 'while' function for the problem. However, I feel like I could solve the problem using 'if' statements rather than a 'while' statement. Can someone please tell me if I'm wrong? "A movie theater charges different ticket prices depending on a person's age. If a person is under the age of 3, the ticket is free; if they are between 3 and 12, the ticket is $10; and if they are over age 12, the ticket is $15. Write a loop in which you ask users their age, and then tell them the cost of their movie ticket."My code: Will this solve the problem? Thanks! 
Write a loop in which you ask users their age, and then tell them the cost of their movie ticketYou have to ask multiple users their age in loop
As pointed out already, your program should loop to allow many users to get the ticket price.  Always make sure that you do not get stuck in an infinite loop, however, so you need to consider a way to escape the loop.  I would suggest that the user can enter something like "Q" to quit.... however then you must consider:uppercase or lowercase... making the user input lowercase (only) for comparison takes care of this, so entering a "Q" will allow the loop to exit using the break statement.Next, you should also consider that a user may enter "ten" for example, so to stop the float() "blowing up" and spitting an exception, using a try/except would handle this.it is essentially "try to execute this code, and if it doesn't explode, continue" and except is like the "else" when using an if statement.I hope this explains the need for a loop, but also other considerations when writing such programs, and how you might approach handling them.
As per Leo stated, this is asking multiple users. Use:This will keep asking for an age until  is input
'While' statement in this exercise is not for the 'age' variable but for the 'ask' process.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html#handling-exceptions
