Natural Text
I am trying to define a function that fits input x and y data of the form:The x and y data are 1-D numpy arrays of the same length. I would like to slice the data so that I can select the first 5 points of x and y, fit those by optimizing C and H in the model, and then move one point ahead and repeat. I have some code that does this for a linear fit over the same data:but doing the same thing over the equation defined above appears to be a bit more tricky. x and y appear as the independent and dependent variables, but there are also parameters xo and yo which are the first values of x and y in each window. The end result I would like are two new arrays with H[i] and C[i], where i designates each subsequent window. Does anybody have some insight as to how I can get started?
Following your comment to my previous answer (where you suggested that you will like  and  to be the initial values in each "sliced"  and  arrays), I am adding another answer. This answer introduces a change in the function  and achieves exactly what you desire. As like my previous answer, we will use curve_fit from scipy.optimize.In the below mentioned code, I am using globals() function from python to define  and . For every sliced  and  arrays,  and  store the first value of the respective sliced arrays. This is the revamped code:Your output for  and  will now be the following:Following are the plots that you get for the data selected above (, ).
You can use curve_fit from scipy.optimize. It will use non-linear least squares to fit the parameters  of your function  to given input data for  and .Try the following code. In the below mentioned code,  and  are numpy arrays which contain fit parameters of  and  respectively when the function  is fitted to windows of 5 consecutive points of  and  ( and  are arrays that I have chosen for  and . You can choose different arrays here.)Following will be your output of  and  for the chosen values of  and .


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functools.html#functools.partial
