Natural Text
When writing code in IDLE, sometimes when I insert a function like  in the example, a window pops up explaining the function and the inputs it needs. I find this very helpful and would like to have this window pop up every time. I googled and tried different key combinations but I can't see to find how you do this.  Can somebody help me with this?
Your question is specific to the python IDLE. In IDLE, you have this functionality enabled by default. For it to work, the function (or method) has to be available in the current namespace.That means it has to either be defined in the running environment, or imported in to the running environment. For example:when you type  in the prompt after the definition, you will see the explanation which really is the documentation contained in the docstring (the stuff between the triple quotes).If a function or method does not have any documentation, then you will not see any explanation. For exampleIn this case when you type in  at the prompt, IDLE will just show , this is because the function does not have any documentation.Some built in functions (called ) do not have docstrings, often this is because they are implemented in the C programming language. For exampleIn this case IDLE will not give any hint because the function does not have any docstring for it to display.A great companion to learning is the python standard reference. You can lookup built in function definitions there for clear explanations about what they do. On the other hand, when writing your own functions, remember to put docstrings as they will help you as you go on.
IDLE's calltips contain the function signature (if directly available) followed by the beginning of the docstring (if there is one).  For builtins that have not gotten the 'Argument Clinic' treatment, the signature is the beginning of the docstring.  This is the case for .  In 3.6 and 3.7, when I type  after the import and prompt, the calltip contains the signature as given in the docstring.  To see the entire reduce() docstring, use  or enter .To see more calltips when editing in the editor, run your code after entering the import statements.  For instance, if you start IDLE and immediate edit a new file and enteryou see no calltip, as you described in your question.  But if you hit F5 after the import and return to the editor, you will.  Similarly, if you want to see calltips for your own functions, run the file occasionally after defining them.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/index.html
