Natural Text
Please forgive the noob question. I don't understand this "self" stuff in relation to this:When I run this, here's the error I get:I understand "self" is used by convention as the first argument in a function but I don't understand the error.  How do I define self?Edit 1: I stand corrected on where "self" is used by convention (see comments/answers below).  However, I still don't know what I should be doing to satisfy the Python interpreter.
self is "used by convention as the first argument" in a method, which is associated with a class. self in this context represents the instance of the class that is calling the method. A function, however, is not associated with a class, and thus no initial self argument is required. This is one of the fundamental differences between functions and methods--methods are associated with a class, and are called as instanceOfClass.methodName(args), where functions simply exist in the namespace and are called as functionName(args). Also note that when calling a method, self is not passed to the call: it is only used when defining the method.
You might know about the this pointer in C++. In priciple, Python's self is quite similar (but is more a reference than a pointer). It is the current object you apply the function to.is actually like (not exactly identical to):As there is actually more involved, the other way round will not work:Will raise an exception (an error), just try it. That is because my_func is an unbound function (not related to any object/class). my_method actually is bound (to my_object).While this is passed implicitly (you do not have to specify it as an argument) to a method in C++, Python requires it to be listed explicitly as the first argument. The name self is actually just convention, a method will always get its object as the first argument, so it could also be named "thats_me". However, stick to `self', as many tools rely on this (syntax highlighting editors, debuggers, ...).In the method itself, all members of the object are then accessed explicitly by self.my_member or self.my_func(). While in C++ one would writemy_memberorthis->my_member`, etcetera. The latter is basically similar to Python's way.Please read more here and in the tutorial in general.Background: Passing the object expliticly as the first argument is due to one of Pythons major guidelines: "explicit is better than implicit".


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html
