Natural Text
Basically there is a file called  and I want to import the file into another file (in the same folder and I cannot change the file name as the file is provided). Is there anyway to do this in Python? I tried usual way , it gives me an error.Error is: 
You could doVery interesting problem. I'll remember not to name anything with a number.If you'd like to  -- you should check out this question and answer.
The above answers are correct, but as for now, the recommended way is to use  function:  Import a module. The name  argument specifies what module to import in absolute or relative terms  (e.g. either  or ). If the name is specified in relative  terms, then the package argument must be set to the name of the  package which is to act as the anchor for resolving the package name  (e.g.  will import ).The import_module() function acts as a simplifying wrapper around  . This means all semantics of the function are  derived from . The most important difference  between these two functions is that  returns the  specified package or module (e.g. ), while  returns  the top-level package or module (e.g. ).If you are dynamically importing a module that was created since the  interpreter began execution (e.g., created a Python source file), you  may need to call  in order for the new module to be  noticed by the import system. is not recommended now.  An implementation of the built-in  function.Note Programmatic importing of modules should use  instead of this function.
Don't use the  extension in your imports.Does  work?For what it's worth,  is not a preferred Python pattern, as it bleeds that module's namespace into your current context.In general, try to import things you specifically want from that module.  Any global from the other module can be imported.e.g., if you have  you could do `from 8puzzle import Edit:While my  message is correct, it isn't sufficient.The other poster's  suggestion is correct.  However, I highly recommend avoiding this pattern.For one, it's reserved an internal, private Python method.  You are basically breaking the fundamental assumptions of what it means to be able to import a module.  Simply renaming the file to something else, like , will remedy this.This will frustrate the hell out of experienced Python programmers who are expecting to know what your imports are at the top and are expecting code to (try to) conform to PEP8.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/importlib.html#importlib.import_module
https://docs.python.org/3/library/importlib.html#importlib.__import__
