Natural Text
I created a virtualenv around my project, but when I try to activate it I cannot.It might just be syntax or folder location, but I am stumped right now.You can see below, I create the virtualenv and call it venv. Everything looks good, then I try to activate it by running I'm thinking it might just have to do with my system path, but not sure what to point it to (I do know how to edit the path). I'm on python 7 / windows os, virtual env 2.2.x
 is a shell command designed for users running on Linux (or any Posix, but whatever, not Windows).On Windows, virtualenv creates a batch file, so you should run  instead (per the virtualenv documentation on the activate script).
I had the same problem. I was using Python 2, Windows 10 and Git Bash. Turns out in Git Bash you need to use:
For activation you can go to the  your virtualenv directoryby .Then on Windows, type  (on unix, type ). You will get 5 folders , , ,  and 60 Now type  to activate your virtualenv .Your prompt will change to indicate that you are now operating within the virtual environment. It will look something like this .Congratulation..And your  is activated now.
For windows, type "C:\Users\Sid\venv\FirstProject\Scripts\activate" in the terminal without quotes. Simply give the location of your Scripts folder in your project. So, the command will be location_of_the_Scripts_Folder\activate.
I have a hell of a time using  on windows with git bash, I usually end up specifying the python binary explicitly. If my environment is in say  I'll call python via , or in a shebang line ; Both assuming your working directory contains your virtualenv ().
You can run the source command on cygwin terminal
I was also facing the same issue in my Windows 10 machine.What steps i tried were:Go to andconda terminalStep 1Step 2or Step 3You can check it via spider tool in anaconda by typing 
A small reminder, but I had my slashes the wrong way on Win10 cmd. According to python documentation the activate command is: When you're browsing directories it's e.g. So to create my venv I used  and to activate 
If you see the 5 folders (,,,,) after using the  command, change directory to  folder in the cmd itself and simply use "activate" command.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html
