Natural Text
I'm having trouble debugging my code because I cannot understand the socket error being raised.Here is the traceback.According to the errno library Errno 54 is errno.EXFULL which in the python 3 documentation is explained as exchange full.To my understanding the Connection reset by peer is Errno 104 i.e errno.ECONNRESET.So what does errno.EXFULL mean? and why does socket raise the error with a connection reset by peer description instead of exchange full. And or how are the two errors errno.EXFULL and errno.ECONNRESET related?PS: I read that the errno 54 might be related to http proxy (I'm using a proxy in my code). If so, how?
According to the errno library Errno 54 is errno.EXFULLDid you determine that by examining errno.errorcode[54]? Anyway - this errno library might be at fault. You could verify the meaning of an error code on your system by looking into errno.h, e. g. with the help of gcc:Also, the Python documentation says:To translate a numeric error code to an error message, use  os.strerror().It may well be that error number 54 is ECONNRESET on your system, and that os.strerror(54) will attest that.Now that you have verified that os.strerror(54) returns 'Exchange full', I am puzzled why the error number 54 and the error string Connection reset by peer do not match. If that happens on a system with strace or something similar, I would further check which error is returned by the operating system through use of strace -e network on the affected process.Regarding your question about EXFULL: Its meaning seems somewhat system dependent; e. g. on Linux, EXFULL is returned from only a handful places in the kernel, the only network-related place being in br_if.c concerning network bridges, when no available bridge port number is found (other places are in USB and SCSI drivers).
I tried to use python to crew coin market on OKEX.com using WebSocket,cause the url is an outer address,i used a vpn service provided by us,but it still can work. here is the code an traceback.
You can try this code to your project:if it not work,make sure the server open TLSv1 support.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/errno.html
