Natural Text
How to I check if all values in list are >= 30? my_list1 should work and my_list2 should not.The only thing I could think of doing was:Update 2016:In hindsight, after dealing with bigger datasets where speed actually matters and utilizing numpy...I would do this:You could also do something like: 
Use the all() function with a generator expression:Note that this tests for greater than or equal to 30, otherwise my_list1 would not pass the test either.If you wanted to do this in a function, you'd use:e.g. as soon as you find a value that proves that there is a value below 30, you return False, and return True if you found no evidence to the contrary.Similarly, you can use the any() function to test if at least 1 value matches the condition.
...any reason why you can't use min()?I don't know if this is exactly what you want, but technically, this is what you asked for...
There is a builtin function all:Being limit the value greater than which all numbers must be.
You can use all():Note that this includes all numbers equal to 30 or higher, not strictly above 30.
You could do the following:This will return the values that are greater than 30 as True, and the values that are smaller as false.
The overall winner between using the np.sum, np.min, and all seems to be np.min in terms of speed for large arrays:(i need to put the np.array definition inside the function, otherwise the np.min function remembers the value and does not do the computation again when testing for speed with timeit)The performance of "all" depends very much on when the first element that does not satisfy the criteria is found, the np.sum needs to do a bit of operations, the np.min is the lightest in terms of computations in the general case.When the criteria is almost immediately met and the all loop exits fast, the all function is winning just slightly over np.min:But when "all" needs to go through all the points, it is definitely much worse, and the np.min wins:But usingcan be very useful is one wants to know how many values are below x.
I write this functionThenEmpty list on min() will raise ValueError. So I added if not x in condition.


Answer URL
