Natural Text
Say I have a list  with unkown length from which I want to randomly pop one element so that the list does not contain the element afterwards. What is the most pythonic way to do this?I can do it using a rather unhandy combincation of , , and  and would like to see shorter or nicer solutions:Edit: What I am trying to achieve is consecutively pop random elements from a list. (i.e., randomly pop one element and move it to a dictionary, randomly pop another element and move it to another dictionary, ...)Note that I am using Python 2.6 and did not find any solutions via the search function.
What you seem to be up to doesn't look very Pythonic in the first place. You shouldn't remove stuff from the middle of a list, because lists are implemented as arrays in all Python implementations I know of, so this is an  operation.If you really need this functionality as part of an algorithm, you should check out a data structure like the  that supports efficient deletion from the middle.In pure Python, what you can do if you don't need access to the remaining elements is just shuffle the list first and then iterate over it:If you really need the remainder (which is a bit of a code smell, IMHO), at least you can  from the end of the list now (which is fast!):In general, you can often express your programs more elegantly if you use a more functional style, instead of mutating state (like you do with the list).
You won't get much better than that, but here is a slight improvement:Documentation on :random.randrange([start], stop[, step])  Return a randomly selected element from . This is equivalent to , but doesn’t actually build a range object.
Here's another alternative: why don't you shuffle the list first, and then start popping elements of it until no more elements remain? like this:
To remove a single element at random index from a list if the order of the rest of list elements doesn't matter:The swap is used to avoid O(n) behavior on deletion from a middle of a list.
One way to do it is:
While not popping from the list, I encountered this question on Google while trying to get X random items from a list without duplicates. Here's what I eventually used:This may be slightly inefficient as you're shuffling an entire list but only using a small portion of it, but I'm not an optimisation expert so I could be wrong.
This answer comes courtesy of @niklas-b: "You probably want to use something like pypi.python.org/pypi/blist "To quote the PYPI page:...a list-like type with better asymptotic performance and similar  performance on small listsThe blist is a drop-in replacement for the Python list that provides  better performance when modifying large lists. The blist package also  provides sortedlist, sortedset, weaksortedlist, weaksortedset,  sorteddict, and btuple types.One would assume lowered performance on the random access/random run end, as it is a "copy on write" data structure. This violates many use case assumptions on Python lists, so use it with care.HOWEVER, if your main use case is to do something weird and unnatural with a list (as in the forced example given by @OP, or my Python 2.6 FIFO queue-with-pass-over issue), then this will fit the bill nicely.
I know this is an old question, but just for documentation's sake:If you (the person googling the same question) are doing what I think you are doing, which is selecting k number of items randomly from a list (where k<=len(yourlist)), but making sure each item is never selected more than one time (=sampling without replacement), you could use random.sample like @j-f-sebastian suggests. But without knowing more about the use case, I don't know if this is what you need.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.sample
