Natural Text
If Python does not have a ternary conditional operator, is it possible to simulate one using other language constructs?
Yes, it was added in version 2.5. The expression syntax is:First  is evaluated, then exactly one of either  or  is evaluated and returned based on the Boolean value of . If  evaluates to , then  is evaluated and returned but  is ignored, or else when  is evaluated and returned but  is ignored.This allows short-circuiting because when  is true only  is evaluated and  is not evaluated at all, but when  is false only  is evaluated and  is not evaluated at all.For example:Note that conditionals are an expression, not a statement. This means you can't use assignment statements or  or other statements within a conditional expression:In such a case, you have to use a normal  statement instead of a conditional expression.Keep in mind that it's frowned upon by some Pythonistas for several reasons:The order of the arguments is different from those of the classic  ternary operator from many other languages (such as C, C++, Go, Perl, Ruby, Java, Javascript, etc.), which may lead to bugs when people unfamiliar with Python's "surprising" behaviour use it (they may reverse the argument order).Some find it "unwieldy", since it goes contrary to the normal flow of thought (thinking of the condition first and then the effects).Stylistic reasons.If you're having trouble remembering the order, then remember that when read aloud, you (almost) say what you mean. For example,  is read aloud as .Official documentation:     Conditional expressionsIs there an equivalent of C’s ”?:” ternary operator?
You can index into a tuple: needs to return True or False.It might be safer to always implement it as:or you can use the built-in  to assure a Boolean value:
For versions prior to 2.5, there's the trick:It can give wrong results when   has a false boolean value.1Although it does have the benefit of evaluating expressions left to right, which is clearer in my opinion.1. Is there an equivalent of C’s ”?:” ternary operator?
expression1 if condition else expression2
From the documentation:Conditional expressions (sometimes called a “ternary operator”) have the lowest priority of all Python operations.The expression  first evaluates the condition, C (not x); if C is true, x is evaluated and its value is returned; otherwise, y is evaluated and its value is returned.See PEP 308 for more details about conditional expressions.New since version 2.5.
An operator for a conditional expression in Python was added in 2006 as part of Python Enhancement Proposal 308. Its form differ from common  operator and it's:which is equivalent to:Here is an example:Another syntax which can be used (compatible with versions before 2.5):where operands are lazily evaluated.Another way is by indexing a tuple (which isn't consistent with the conditional operator of most other languages):or explicitly constructed dictionary:Another (less reliable), but simpler method is to use  and  operators:however this won't work if  would be .A possible workaround is to make  and  lists or tuples as in the following:or:If you're working with dictionaries, instead of using a ternary conditional, you can take advantage of , for example:Source: ?: in Python at Wikipedia
@up:Unfortunately, thesolution doesn't have short-circuit behaviour; thus both falseValue and trueValue are evaluated regardless of the condition. This could be suboptimal or even buggy (i.e. both trueValue and falseValue could be methods and have side-effects).One solution to this would be(execution delayed until the winner is known ;)), but it introduces inconsistency between callable and non-callable objects. In addition, it doesn't solve the case when using properties.And so the story goes - choosing between 3 mentioned solutions is a trade-off between having the short-circuit feature, using at least python 2.5 (IMHO not a problem anymore) and not being prone to "trueValue-evaluates-to-false" errors.
For Python 2.5 and newer there is a specific syntax:In older Pythons a ternary operator is not implemented but it's possible to simulate it.Though, there is a potential problem, which if  evaluates to  and  evaluates to  then  is returned instead of . If you want this behavior the method is OK, otherwise use this:which can be wrapped by:and used this way:It is compatible with all Python versions.
Ternary Operator in different programming LanguagesHere I just try to show some important difference in  between a couple of programming languages.Ternary Operator in JavascriptTernary Operator in RubyTernary operator in ScalaTernary operator in R programmingTernary operator in Python
You might often findbut this lead to problem when on_true == 0where you would expect for a  normal ternary operator this result
Absolutely, and it is incredibly easy to understand. 
Does Python have a ternary conditional operator?Yes. From the grammar file:The part of interest is:So, a ternary conditional operation is of the form: will be lazily evaluated (that is, evaluated only if  is false in a boolean context). And because of the recursive definition, you can chain them indefinitely (though it may considered bad style.)A note on usage:Note that every  must be followed with an . People learning list comprehensions and generator expressions may find this to be a difficult lesson to learn - the following will not work, as Python expects a third expression for an else:which raises a .So the above is either an incomplete piece of logic (perhaps the user expects a no-op in the false condition) or what may be intended is to use expression2 as a filter - notes that the following is legal Python: works as a filter for the list comprehension, and is not a ternary conditional operator.Alternative syntax for a more narrow case:You may find it somewhat painful to write the following: will have to be evaluated twice with the above usage. It can limit redundancy if it is simply a local variable. However, a common and performant Pythonic idiom for this use-case is to use 's shortcutting behavior:which is equivalent in semantics. Note that some style-guides may limit this usage on the grounds of clarity - it does pack a lot of meaning into very little syntax.
Simulating the python ternary operator.For exampleoutput:
you can do this :-Example:-This would print "odd" if the number is odd or "even" if the number is even.The result :-  If condition is true exp_1 is executed else exp_2 is executed.Note :- 0 , None , False , emptylist , emptyString evaluates as False.And any data other than 0 evaluates to True.Here's how it works:if the condition [condition] becomes "True" then , expression_1 will be evaluated but not expression_2 .If we "and" something with 0 (zero) , the result will always to be fasle .So in the below statement ,The expression exp won't be evaluated at all since "and" with 0 will always evaluate to zero and there is no need to evaluate the expression . This is how the compiler itself works , in all languages.In the expression exp won't be evaluated at all since "or" with 1 will always be 1. So it won't bother to evaluate the expression exp since the result will be 1 anyway . (compiler optimization methods). But in case of The second expression exp2 won't be evaluated since  would be True when exp1 isn't false .Similarly in The expression exp1 won't be evaluated since False is equivalent to writing 0 and doing "and" with 0 would be 0 itself but after exp1 since "or" is used, it will evaluate the expression exp2 after "or" .Note:- This kind of branching using "or" and "and" can only be used when the expression_1 doesn't have a Truth value of False (or 0 or None or emptylist [ ] or emptystring ' '.) since if expression_1 becomes False , then the expression_2 will be evaluated because of the presence "or" between exp_1 and exp_2.In case you still want to make it work for all the cases regardless of what exp_1 and exp_2 truth values are, do this :-
Ternary conditional operator simply allows testing a condition in a single line replacing the multiline if-else making the code compact.Syntax :[on_true] if [expression] else [on_false] 1- Simple Method to use ternary operator:2- Direct Method of using tuples, Dictionary, and lambda:3- Ternary operator can be written as nested if-else:Above approach can be written as:
More a tip than an answer (don't need to repeat the obvious for the hundreth time), but I sometimes use it as a oneliner shortcut in such constructs:, becomes:Some (many :) may frown upon it as unpythonic (even, ruby-ish :), but I personally find it more natural - i.e. how you'd express it normally, plus a bit more visually appealing in large blocks of code.

Yes, you can use it that way : Read more about ternary conditional operator
Just memorize this pyramid if you have trouble remembering:
YES, python have a ternary operator, here is the syntax and an example code to demonstrate the same :)
Yes.
Syntax:The Ternary operator will be given as:e.g
Many programming languages derived from  usually have the following syntax of ternary conditional operator:At first, the  Benevolent Dictator For Life (I mean Guido van Rossum, of course) rejected it (as non-Pythonic style), since it's quite hard to understand for people not used to  language. Also, the colon sign  already has many uses in . After PEP 308 was approved,  finally received its own shortcut conditional expression (what we use now):So, firstly it evaluates the condition. If it returns , expression1 will be evaluated to give the result, otherwise expression2 will be evaluated. Due to Lazy Evaluation mechanics – only one expression will be executed.Here are some examples (conditions will be evaluated from left to right):Ternary operators can be chained in series:     The following one is the same as previous one:Hope this helps.
One of the alternatives to Python's conditional expression is the following:which has the following nice extension:The shortest alterative remains:but there is no alternative if you want to avoid the evaluation of both  and  in the following:
The operator is "conditional". Ternary just means that it takes three operands. We don't call + the "binary" + operator. There is no reason to keep doing this with conditional. Whether it is faster or more compact than if-else is beside the point. What matters is that it is an expression, allowing it to be embedded in other expressions. Properly used, it reduces redundancy and opportunities for hard-to-spot differences.
Yes:Let’s say you want to give variable x some value if some bool is true and likewise 
if variable is defined and you want to check if it has value you can just will output
You can use expression syntax for ternary operator in python:Where 'a' is first(default) result i.e when condtion is true, and 'b' is second result i.e when condition is false.The output of above code will be:'even number'


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#conditional-expressions
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#conditional-expressions
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#dict.get
