Natural Text
I'm currently stuck on a question where I need to check for every instance of the letter  in  and replace it with a .For example lets say that the  is , if the original  was , I would need to return . So far I have my attempts are:I dont really know how to structure this but this was my general thought process. I'm not sure how to remove the letter  and replace it with the  without breaking up the string itself. Also I can't use indexes or the  method. Would appreciate the help.
There's a number of issues here; let's break them down without altering your original code too much:You function definition lacks a name, define it with a name properly. For example:I'm guessing this might be a copy-paste omission. is a ,  doesn't get interpreted as  (but as two separate operators  and ), unfortunately, that needs fixing too. is another ; assignment statements should not be confused with equality checks, that is  is not similar to using . is a ; the method  isn't defined for strings, strings are immutable and appending is a method that mutates the object.  is available on s. isn't doing much :-(. You assign to  and then simply don't use it.FInally, you don't return anything. Even if your function created the string correctly, you can't get it back because your don't use the  statement.One approach you could consider is to use a list of character strings and mutate that; lists are mutable so mutate to your hearts desire. Then, you  the list in the end and return a string out of all the characters inside it:This yields your wanted result. If you can't use a , mutate it and then  you could resort to incrementally building a new string:This again behaves like the previous  based function but relies on  which creates new strings by joining the old value in  with the  or the  based on the condition.Of course,  on strings would do the trick as the comment by @yper suggests but that beats the point of explaining how your attempt didn't achieve what you were after.You were close but missing a couple of basic things, I'd advice you take a look at the Python Tutorial. :-)


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html
