Natural Text
My query is to write a function that calculates and computes the balance of a bank account with a given initial balance and interest rate, after a given number of years. Assume interest is compounded yearly.Here is the code I have so far but I am getting the following error traceback and I have no clue why. Please help. Here is my code:
The error  means that you are using the wrong (an unknown) conversion type for your string formatting. By using the interpolation operator  (also known as string formatting operator) it will give you access to a conversion type which is also expected to be named after setting the operator. As you can see in the documentation there are more optional characters you can include to refine the behavior/result of the operator but the last one (the character which represents the conversion type) is mandatory.Your problem can be boiled down to this code which will give the same error:As you can see here (index 2 references to the  in the left string) the  is used as an identifier for the conversion type to be used. This is because the  is interpreted as optional precision of the minimum field width. And so the next character is the format character. If you want to refer to a string you can simply use  (or other format characters leading to a specific conversion type:  with  and  with ) like this:But it seems that you trying to name your placeholders. So you have to use parentheses for that and refer to it via a dictionary:For your code there is another obvious problem. You're naming  and  but only give a resolution to . I think you want to do something like this:BTW: You're using old-style string formatting by using -operator instead of new-style method  or since Python3.6 even f-strings like . This can make your live much simpler.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#printf-style-string-formatting
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.format
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#f-strings
