Natural Text
I am currently trying to animate a series of images where for each image an initially unknown number of ellipses are drawn. I have tried many things so far, but haven't found a solution yet, though I guess I came close. Here is my code:Now when I try this code, I get the following error message:So I tried different things, but ultimately, I found that when, as a test, I put in the plot_images functionand also change the animate function accordingly, i.e.and I don't get an error message and the ellipses are actually plotted in the respective frames as I intended. Now the problem is, that for one, there are many hundred ellipses per image that I would like to plot, so I would have to manually write that all down (i.e. e[0], e[1], e[2] -- e[k], and the same for the animate function) and this doesn't seem to be the right way. The other thing is that as I already said the number of ellipses changes for each image and is not previously known so I cannot possibly adjust the functions accordingly. How can I return this list of ellipses so that the animation reads it as if I would have written them all down separately as it is done in the working example?
Your code is a bit unpythonic, so I cleaned up it just a bit for clarity. Your  has to do with the  function, which is used in matplotlib for figuring out how to layer plots. With the things you tried I can tell you just need to unpack your list_of_ellipses at the end.
It sounds like you want to flatten .You can either create a list with the already flat variables and extend it with e:Or unpack  everywhere you want to use it.
Assuming that you are using matplotlib.animation,  should be returning an  and you are returning one that contains three objects.   is returning a tuple of three instances.  The final one is a list.  You should be able to return a  instead of a  by changing the  function to:However, I would change  to return a  instead.  Maybe something like the following:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#tuple
