Natural Text
I'm reading the python language specification and found there's a None,True, and False token. I can understand the difference between None andFalse since None is not a boolan. But, about True and False, why notjust BOOLEAN there? Is there any case where True and Falsebehave differently? Or is there any semantical difference?Note that I'm asking about the difference in grammar not the boolean value whichis obviously different.
This is a formalization of the fact that True and False are special names in python3: you can't assign to them.  The reason that they aren't BOOLEAN is simply that boolean isn't a valid token for the parser.  Note: You will find this detail missing in the python2 grammar, where you can actually assign to the names True and False (...if you want to watch the world burn).  
NAME, NUMBER, and STRING are tokens representing three classes of tokens. Each of them represents an unlimited set of possible tokens. There are many number literals that can be classified as NUMBER, many string literals that can be STRINGs, etc.There are only two boolean literals, True and False. The tokenizer could have been written to classify them both as BOOLEAN. Could have, but wasn't. They're only referred to once in the entire grammar, so writing 'True' | 'False' is no big deal.
Presumably from the reference to which you linked you are referring to the grammatical productionThis simply gives the strings None, True, and False the same status as certain other language elements. While it would have been possible to create a definition of a Boolean atom which could either be True or False and use that in the grammar, what purpose would that have served?In point of fact, even in 2.7 you can try to delete the True and False definitions from the __builtins__ namespace:Interestingly, if you delete False first there is no complaint about the deletion of True :-)However, this makes even quite standard Python make no sense at all:This underlines that Python was produced as "a programming language for consenting adults." Ultimately it gives you enough rope to hang yourself if you are determined to do that.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/grammar.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/token.html
