Natural Text
so I have an object in an array of objects instantiated from this class:and I want an if statement that says something equivilant to the below psudocode: This when when the if statement evaluates as true for a property, instead of printing "True" it will print "plant".  How would I go about doing this, considering i.property is obviously wrong, and I don't know how to reference the name of an object's value?
Use the builtin , which returns a dictionary of an object's properties and values:So,Note that in your original code  and  are local variables in  and won't be attached as properties of the Entity.
A richer definition of your  objects might be:Then given a collection of entities, you can iterate over them pretty easily:Yields:Note that in Python, it's easy and idiomatic to iterate over the items of a collection, rather than over indices (contra C, JavaScript, and some other languages). You can also filter collections into new collections, for example with list comprehensions:Yields:The pretty representation of the entities, rather than something like , is why we defined the  method. 
If I understand you correctly, you want to print all attribute names which are for given object.This could be done using:dir([object])Without arguments, return the list of names in the current local scope. With an argument, attempt to return a list of valid attributes for that object.  ..(see: https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html?highlight=dir#dir)which returns list of all attributes accessible from given object.So you can print all  attributes using this code:Note that I'm using  means the value must literally be , notjust evaluate to  (like , , etc.).Edited based on comment:I do not understand your concern - the class 's  method sets and  to . Therefore every instance of  classhas no  values. No matter what you pass as a , withoutexplicitly changing some attribute to , there will never be anyattribute with  value.But it is quite likely that I didn't understand what was your intention.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#getattr
