Natural Text
I have a date with events that happened on the date. I want to enumerate the list of events on the date when i show the calendar. Also I need to be able to delete an event from the list.I thought that this would let me access the secondary list under the date and enumerate it but I get an error.Example out:
Just change your  function to this, if you don't use  then you will only get the keys(not both keys and values):Output:About why am I doing this:As you can see, I'm using  function here. From the document:Return an enumerate object. iterable must be a sequence, an iterator, or some other object which supports iteration.  The  method of the iterator returned by  returns a tuple containing a count (from start which defaults to 0) and the values obtained from iterating over iterable.So it will return something like  if the  is . Now we have , when we use  loop on it like ,  will be  at the first loop, and  at the second loop, etc.And then, if you want to print something like (there is some spaces in front of the sting), we need manually put the spaces like ( can join strings here, for example,  is ). Then, because  is a tuple, I'm using .  can get the first element in that tuple,  can get the second, etc.Because  is a integer, and we can't just do something like (will raise ). So we need use  function to covert it to string. And then...maybe you'll understand.Also you can do something like:More clear?  will give something like  at the first loop, and...as I said.About , you could check the document for more details.
 will only loop over the keys in the dictionary. You need to call  to get both keys and values:You can also simplify  by using  method:
You can use a  which which take care of that  check for you; and loop through the  so that you get a tuple of  on each iteration.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#dict.items
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#enumerate
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#print
