Natural Text
My professor showed the class some code we can use to display the initials of a name, but she never explained how it works. The textbook doesn’t help much either. I am confused only on the second line. This isn’t for homework; I just want to know what makes it display the first letters in the string.
Say  after the input is run.Then  splits the name on whitespace , returning an list which consists of the strings `"john", "paul", "jones" (in that order).The  part iterates over this -- hence  is successively bound to  then  then . When  is bound to e.g.  the expression  returns the first character (e.g. ) which is then turned to the corresponding upper case (if it isn't already upper case). The net result is that the generator expressionsuccessively returns the strings  then  then  (in our example).Finally,  takes an iterable of strings and joins them together, using as a delimiter the string that join is called on -- in this case  -- think of this delimiter as the glue which holds the strings in the iterable together. When thus joined -- the final result is .Your instructor probably should have tacked on a  at the end of the expression to get a final period ().
First, userName is a string, for example my name: .Now,  is a generator comprehension(it gives a generator):gives a list like .You'll get , because  is  in first  loop, then  covert it to  and save it to a list(actually it's a generator). And at the second loop, we got .Then,  gives . For more info, please check the document about  and generator comprehension.
Let's take it apart:There is an inner loop here, .  This is splitting the string in userName into chunks, or s.  The documentation for split() says:Return a list of the words of the string s. If the optional second  argument sep is absent or None, the words are separated by arbitrary  strings of whitespace characters (space, tab, newline, return,  formfeed).So if the string contains spaces, it will split the string as you would expect.   would be split into a list .  This list becomes the list of names in the  loop.   would become the values  and  in this case.Next, we have the cryptic function .  This is applied to each value of  from the  loop.  The first part,  takes the first character of the string in .  The second part,  converts that first character (which is actually a one-characters string) into an uppercase character.  This is described in the same documentation as above.Continuing our example,  takes the two strings  and , takes the first letter from each one and converts it to uppercase:  and .  The resulting list is .Finally, the  expression takes the list inside of the  and joins them together using the  character.  In this case, the result is .


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.upper
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.join
