Natural Text
This is what I have so far. I can't figure out what I need to do! (I'm a beginner, so sorry if this question seems so simple/easy to fix)
ProblemYou have several problems here:You  never define size in the head of the while loop.You're using the range builtin class as an integer value which doesn't make sense. You never use alist in your function.You don't need a for loop in your while because you are not trying to find the amount of even numbers for each number between 1 to element, your trying to find all the even numbers in alist (presumably).Here is what the above fixes would look like:In the first part of the while loop:We are telling Python to comparse the value of size to the length of alist each time we loop. We then incrmenet size by one each time in the loop:This basically means that each iteration of the loop, the value of size will correspond to an index of alist. The loop will stop when size reaches the last index of alist. Here's a visual example to help explain. Assume alist is [1, 2, 3] and size initially equals 0:The next important part:Means we are indexing the list alist. When you index a list, you use an integer to get a value from the position that the integer corresponds to. In this case, alist[size] means that we are getting the value of the integer at position of the value of size. The last part:Means that we are testing if the integer at position size in alist is even. If it is, we increment the count of even numbers, if not we do nothing.ImprovementsThere are some improvements you can make to your current solutionUse a for loop instead of a while loop. It would be the more natural solution here.You don't need to do evenIntegers = evenIntegers + 1. You an use the increment operator, +=, instead.Here are the improvements from above applied to your code:However, this can be improved more! You don't need a for loop. You can use a generator comprehension combined with the sum() builtin function to count all of the elements in alist that are even:Stylistic improvementsThe last thing I would critique on your code would be to use better variable names. Use names that accurately describe what the variable represents.For example, the variable myList would be better renamed to user_input_numbers.
Using a for loop would be much simpler though:And even simpler using some list comprehension:
You do not need a while loop at all:If you need to stop a for loop early, you can use the break statement to break out of the loop. Otherwise, it will stop by itself once it reaches the end of the list. It does not need an ending condition to be given manually.
This is very unlike your program but I hope to teach you something with it... First of all if all you need is to "keep count" you don't really have to save the integers themselves in a list. Which means that all you really need is something like this:I hope in this just to show you that you don't have to complicate simple things


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#sum
