Natural Text
Sorry, beginner here. Trying to make this program that scans for a certain letter combination, and if it does not find any, it returns the "else" statement. However, I can't figure out how to have the "else" statement apply ONLY if ALL of the "if" statements return False. Here's my code: Right now, it prints the "else" statement any time the last "if" statement is false. So I'm assuming I need to make it so it's not just applying to the last "if" statement, but I've tried different indentations and it just doesn't work for me. I know this is probably a really stupid question, so I'm sorry in advance. Also, if there are any other things I should do/know about to make this code more efficient, it would be awesome if you could point me towards resources for that! Thanks for any help, I really appreciate it. Other questions if you're really bored and want to help me out at all: is there any way to make the function print the input sequence with the "trouble sequences" highlighted (like in red or something)? That would be awesome, but it seems like it might be too hard for me to pull off with my current level of coding experience. 
You can't have multiple  statements and just one  block and have them work together. Each  part starts a separate, indepdendent statement, so the first  is one statement, and then  is another statement, independent from the first. It doesn't matter what happened in the first , the second  doesn't care.If you want your second and first  tests to work together, you need to use  instead; that makes one whole  statement with extra tests:, like , are parts of a single  statement. You can add more  parts as needed, and each test is then tried, in order, until one passes or you run out of  tests, at which point if nothing matched the  part is executed.See the  statement documentation:[The  statement] selects exactly one of the suites by evaluating the expressions one by one until one is found to be true [...]; then that suite is executed (and no other part of the  statement is executed or evaluated). If all expressions are false, the suite of the  clause, if present, is executed.and the grammar shows a single  statement can have one  part, any number of  parts ( means 0 or more), and an optional  part ( means optional):If, on the other hand, you wanted to execute all tests, and a separate block if nothing matched, you need to use a loop; set a flag to indicate no tests were matched, or keep a count, or something else, and at the end test the flag or count:
if you use the  construct, it will be tested only when the previous condition was false, so in the end only one of the code blocks will run.
Create a list of sequences and messages, like below, activate a boolean flag if found and test only one for each sequence.Look below.For coloring and font choice, try to output results as HTML, for instance. You can get your results in a browser.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#the-if-statement
