Natural Text
I am trying to create a Randomized Binary Search Tree. I am following the instructions (pseudo code) on this web page. Also I am doing this with TEAP (Tree Heap) technique of given the elements different priorities and thus making a balanced Binary Search Tree.The code is what follows:Now, when I execute this code I get an error message that says . Alright, so I check the object that is passed to the function, and this seems to happen:The element, that is the nodeobject, is passed, eventually, to the  method. Here the parameter  is the nodeobject. I "reach" inside within this nodeobject to get its leftchild. Then in turn I 'reach' within this object back to the Nodeobject, leftchildobjects so called parent. Now things get mixed up: The Parentobject is perverted in some way. It should be identical to the Nodeobject, but I cannot see what I am doing wrong. If I print the nodeobject and its leftchild and leftchildParent, you will notice the difference.Nodeobject Leftchildobject Leftchildobjects parent (this should obviously be Nodeobject above) What is happening in the last step?EDITHere is the method where something doesn't work. The if statement  raises an error namely . What exactly am I supposed to do not to raise this error, it looks fine to me(?)
 is a method, you have to call it to get the value.  It's worth noting that the getter/setter pattern doesn't really make sense in Python, and your code would be greatly simplified without it.EDIT:Look at the line .  What's happening there is that you are assigning  to be the parent of .  But  is a method.  So when you do , that's equivalent to , which doesn't work because that method does not have a  method.As to getters and setters: what makes you think you need them?  Your method could just as easily be I also don't see a  method defined in your objects.  The default  method only returns True if the two objects are the same instance.  Since you use  in your code, that's probably not what you want.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html
