Natural Text
I just spent almost an hour tracking down what was- at the time- a very confusing error message. The source of the error was this block of code (for the purposes of this question, the meaning of all the pieces really doesn't matter):Which resulted in this error:The cause of the error is that I had neglected to do an import of the  function at the top of the file (from the  module).As a result,  is referring to the built-in  function. Although the error message seems very clear to me now that I understand the cause, I ended up wasting a bunch of time looking at the package source code from which thought I had imported the function, thinking the error was coming from there. Instead, it was coming from the built-in  all along.  The  function is something I tend to forget even exists. I hardly ever use it, if ever, and indeed there are a number of functions in the built-in list just like  that I also never use (I'm looking at YOU, , and YOU, filter!), and as a result they are sitting there doing nothing other than contaminating my namespace.Typically when forgetting to import something, one will just get a  in which case the cause is obvious; but when there are things lurking about in the namespace I did not put there it is much less obvious. Is there a full-proof way to avoid issues like this?What can be done? Or is this just something every Python coder has to learn to live with?
The only idea I have that avoids this problem is to not import objects into the namespace to begin with. For example, instead of:One would do:This fixes the problem. However, I do not like this solution because the only thing I plan to use from the  package in that module is  in the first place. It is a bit more direct and clear to the reader (i.e., Future Me) WHY and WHAT I am making use of the  module when what is being imported is right up front.A better solution would be a "set it and forget" way to eliminate things from the global namespace that aren't of use to me in the module in which I'm working.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#compile
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#id
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#filter
