Natural Text
So I have recently started programming python and I have one issue with this code. When the player gets the answer incorrect after using all their lives it should print the answer which it does but only the first time the layer plays i they play again they don't get told the correct answer if the get it wrong. It also does this when the player gets the answer correct. Plus the number the computer chooses stays the same when you use the play again function. Please try and help me but bear in mind my understanding cane be very limited in some aspects of python. I've included lots of comments to help others understand whats going on. I have included my code and what I get in the shell.Code:SHELL:
The problem with your function is that you have a global variable named num, but your main function also has a local variable named num. The num += 1 line inside main only changes the local variable. But the if num != 1 at the end checks the global variable.To fix this, add a global statement:Why does this work?In Python, any time you write an assignment statement (like num = 0 or num += 1) in a function, that creates a local variable—unless you've explicitly told it not to, with a global statement.* So, adding that global num means that now, there is no local variable num, so num += 1 affects the global instead.This is explained in more detail in the tutorial section on Defining Functions.* Or a nonlocal statement, but you don't want to learn about that yet.However, there's a better way to fix this. Instead of using a global variable, you can return the value in the local variable. Like this:
Ok so my friend looked at my code and we solved it together. We have fixed both the number staying the same and being told the correct answer by doing this.I would like to thank everyone that helped out as with out I still wouldn't be able to see the problem within my code let alone fix it. For this reason I will me marking @abarnert 's answer as the accepted answer as he found the bug. 
You can try this code. I did it as a school assignment 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functions
