Natural Text
I am making a username password program using sqlite and i want to check if a username is in the database (ive already dont this) then i want to find the row id of said username, this will be a username that the user has inputed, i know how to find the rowid of a word in the database e.g 'Word'. How would i make is so i could replace the word with a variablehere is my code:i am looking at where it says t = c.execute("SELECT rowid, FROM stuffToPlot WHERE username = 'usernameask' ")and want to replace the 'usernameask' wich is currently looking for it as a word in the database to a variable. How would i do this?There is no error, it just finds the position of the word "usernameask" wich isnt in the database.
You want to use a parameterised query. You put placeholders in your query where your data has to go, and leave it to the database driver to put your data and the query together.Parameterised queries let you avoid a common security pitfall, the SQL injection attack, where an attacker can 'augment' your database query by putting in more commands than you originally anticipated. Query parameters always make sure your data is only ever handled as data, not as commands.A parameterised query us usually also faster, as it lets the database avoid having to parse your query every time if you use it more than once, and it can also reuse query plans.The sqlite3 database library uses ? for positional parameters; put a ? where ever you need to use data from your code, and put the parameter values in a sequence (like a tuple or a list) in the second argument to cursor.execute():Note that (usernameask,) is a tuple with one element. You could also use [usernameask].This executes your SELECT query using the string value that usernameask references in the WHERE username = filter. The driver takes care of quoting your value properly.You could also use named parameters, these take the form of :parametername, (where you can pick your own names), and then you use a dictionary for the second argument to cursor.execute(), mapping names to values:Here the placeholder is named username, and the dictionary maps that to the usernameask value.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sqlite3.html#sqlite3.Cursor.execute
