Natural Text
So I have this code and call me an idiot haha, but I cant get this to print None then 7.Code:I need to know how to alter the variable that has the same name as the parameter in the function. Any help would be greatly appreciated, and if you don't understand the question I'd be glad to explain more.
It prints None because your function() doesn't return anything.It prints False because parameter (which is currently 6) does not equal 7.To alter the global variable which is being masked by the local variable, use the globals() function:
Since I truly hate globals variable this is how I would do it:OutputBasically, by specifying a variable with the same name as the parameter and assigning the function you can alter parameter as if it was the same variable. Note that this is not the case, it is not actually the same object. But if your goal is to use the same name it works.
Define parameter as global and don't actually pass it as parameter:
What you can do is refer to it as a global. What will probably help you better is to use the concept of functions for what they are: provided any given input, they produce some result. So, you'd probably want to use a return:However, if you want to refer to the variable, in python you can do all sorts of crazy stuff, like accessing the module scope as an object and alter it's value there:However, there's a reason I call this crazy, and that's because if a function has side effects, you can never tell from the outside. And that is complexity you want to avoid. Because your code should be predictable as much as possible. For obvious reasons.
Using globals is neither thread safe nor recommended. Looks like the cleanest solution 'd be to pass your parameter argument in a mutable container. See https://docs.python.org/3/faq/programming.html#how-do-i-write-a-function-with-output-parameters-call-by-reference


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/faq/programming.html#how-do-i-write-a-function-with-output-parameters-call-by-reference
