Natural Text
I am new to Python and I am making a program in which the computer generates a random number within a certain range and then tries to guess the number it picked. I am making the computer guess multiple numbers (in this case 2) by using a for loop. I am also keeping track of the number of guesses it took after each iteration of the loop. After that, I am going to take average of those guesses after the loop has finished. However, when I try to get the average it doesn't print. I don't know what's wrong with the code. Can someone help me with this issue?
You don't need or want the guess() function to call itself like that because the way it's currently coded it will never return.Here's how I would reorganize your code to avoid the need to do that:Sample output:
By calling guess inside itself you are creating a recursive function that has no base case, hence it will never end.  A better approach is to make the loop occur in the actual code.  In the following code, I also took the liberty to make the function flexible by allowing it to be called any number of times dependent on input.
What you have there is recursion which is when a function calls itself.In your case you do not need recursion, just one function and code that calls it.Your function should do one thing and do it well. In this case your function is for the computer to guess a number it generated.Now it seems you want this code to run twice. So the computer guesses multiple numbers and has many tries for each number it's trying to guess.In this case you just need to call the function multiple times outside the function.This code isn't indented and isn't part of the function. To learn more about functions you can go to the Python Docs: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functionsI'll also link to a book I highly recommend: http://inventwithpython.com/chapter6.htmlThese resources will help you learn more about functions.Hope this answer helped you! If you have any further questions please post a comment below!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functions
