Natural Text
So I am trying to keep my project as simple as possible, therefore I have decided to use a CGI with my Python scripts in order to run a program that does something.So here is my current setup:In CMD, I run:This start a server for me. I can access it via . Next, I am trying to find my directory with the script by typing in the actual address where it is located: This is giving me the output of the actual file, not actually reading it properly. I have tried 2 different ways to output data on the Python file, for example:and Both of which result in the actual code being displayed in my browser.A few questions:How do I get my server to automatically take me to the location of the file I am trying to run? How do I get the python script to output the proper stuff? Am I setting this up correctly?I am trying to avoid installing any new dependencies and keep it as minimal as possible. I am running on Python3, Windows7. I am trying to avoid downloading more pip packages and dependencies because my work is very tech precautious. Any help is greatly appreciated.
First, I want to say that writing plain CGI-scripts in 2017 is a way of a brave person. Your life will be much easier if you would use bottle or flask.But if you want, here is the way you can start. assumes that the  is in the current directory. That is you should go to the  directory and start the command from there. And then call .Your cgi-script is not correct. The script should be executable. I am not sure if it needs a shebang line in Windows when you run the , but is is required when you run CGI-scripts with Apache web server under Windows. The shebang line starts with  and then contains the full path to python3 interpreter, and the line should end with  and not , otherwise it won't work.After that you should output all the HTTP-headers, print a blank line, and output your content. All HTTP-headers should be separated by '\r\n' and not '\n'.Here is an example CGI-script that works on OS X:
I think the first line of the script needs to specify the interpreter path. Some examples are:See if it helps.
According to the http.server documentation:This defaults to ['/cgi-bin', '/htbin'] and describes directories to treat as containing CGI scripts.So,  is expecting to find CGI scripts in a subfolder named /cgi-bin ot /htbin in your python.exe folder. If you really want to use the test folder, then change the  variable in the  script.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/http.server.html#http.server.CGIHTTPRequestHandler
