Natural Text
I have large binary data files that have a predefined format, originally written by a Fortran program as little endians. I would like to read these files in the fastest, most efficient manner, so using the  package seemed right up my alley as suggested here.The problem is the pre-defined format is non-homogeneous. It looks something like this:with each integer  taking up 4 bytes, and each double  taking 8 bytes.Is there a way I can still use the super efficient  package (or another suggestion) but with the right format?
Use . In particular, .Here  holds the given binary data.
It's not clear from your question whether you're concerned about the actual file reading speed (and building data structure in memory), or about later data processing speed.If you are reading only once, and doing heavy processing later, you can read the file record by record (if your binary data is a recordset of repeated records with identical format), parse it with  and append it to a  array:Under assumption you are allowed to cast all your s to s and willing to accept increase in allocated memory size (22% increase for your record from the question).If you are reading the data from file many times, it could be worthwhile to convert everything to one large  of s (like above) and write it back to another file from which you can later read with :Update. Thanks to a nice benchmark by @martineau, now we know for a fact that preprocessing the data and turning it into an homogeneous array of doubles ensures that loading such data from file (with ) is  faster than reading it record-per-record, unpacking and appending to  (as shown in the first code listing above).A faster (and a more standard) variation of record-by-record reading in @martineau's answer which appends to  and doesn't upcast to  is only  slower than  method and seems like a better reference benchmark.
Major Update: Modified to use proper code for reading in a preprocessed array file (function  below), which dramatically changed the results.To determine what method is faster in Python (using only built-ins and the standard libraries), I created a script to benchmark (via ) the different techniques that could be used to do this. It's a bit on the longish side, so to avoid distraction, I'm only posting the code tested and related results. (If there's sufficient interest in the methodology, I'll post the whole script.)Here are the snippets of code that were compared:And here were the results running them on my system:Interestingly, most of the snippets are actually faster in Python 2...
Take a look at the documentation for 's  function: https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-1.13.0/reference/generated/numpy.fromfile.html and https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/arrays.dtypes.html#arrays-dtypes-constructingSimplest example:Read more about "Structured Arrays" in  and how to specify their data type(s) here: https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/user/basics.rec.html#
There's a lot of good and helpful answers here, but I think the best solution needs more explaining. I implemented a method that reads the entire data file in one pass using the built-in  and constructs a   all at the same time. This is more efficient than reading the data and constructing the array separately, but it's also a bit more finicky.Here, we open the file as a binary file using the  option in . Then, we construct our  with the proper shape and dtype to fit our read buffer. We then reduce the  into a 1D array by taking its zeroth index, where all our data is hiding. Then, we reshape the array using ,  and  methods. This is because  doesn't like having data with mixed dtypes, and I'm okay with having my integers expressed as doubles.This method is ~100x faster than looping line-for-line through the data, and could potentially be compressed down into a single line of code.In the future, I may try to read the data in even faster using a  script that essentially converts the binary file into a text file. I don't know if this will be faster, but it may be worth a try.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/array.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/struct.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/array.html#array.array.fromfile
