Natural Text
I have this code in PythonAnd I'm wondering why this code won't work. There seems to be some error in the fourth lineBut I can't figure out which part of it is wrong. I believe I used the array[i] component correctly. Perhaps it's a string issue?Question:Which part of the code doesn't work?What is my error?I'm relatively new to computer science in general. Thanks for the help. Anything is appreciated!
You have some problems, I will comment one by one:First, you had some indentation problems, be careful with that.The rest are comments in the codeupdate
I ran your code and got this error:This means that in your  line, the types don't match up. You need to wrap  in a  function to match  to the type of , which is a float since you initialized it to . The docs say the  function returns a string, and since you're appending  to , you are trying to sum a string with a float. The line should look like this:Try running it again and the code works. Here is the documentation for Edit: now to fix the issues were were having with the sum.Here is a version of your code I have revised with corrections to do the addition the way you want.As mentioned by others,  isn't a great variable name so I've renamed it . Notice the  declaration that is outside the function. When you initialize  inside  like you did, you will always be adding  to . I doubt this is what you want. Instead, you want to keep a running total of the item count, which needs to be passed into the function. I've also eliminated the loop from your function. This loop was actually iterating over the characters in , not the elements as you expected it to.
First of there are several things wrong. I will explain each and everything.Here is your complete working code:Your Mistakes:1) - First one. Pretty common for beginner.  in python gets user input as string. So your  is a String.See there are data types in all languages. And Python is a Strongly typed language while perl is not. How to say if a language is strongly typed or weakly typed ? Simple. Try this in your interpreter.See the error now try this,Works perfectly fine right. Python doesn't allow just  while some languages do example perl. Read more about it. So you can't add them you have to typecast. So change that intoorIf you are going to work with float values.2)  See you are passing  to the function. But your function definition has . What actually happens here isWhere  So your  is nothing but . What you should do intead is3)  NEVER I said never use built-in or keyword names (ex ample : sum,min,max,int,str etc) as variable names. Read more about naming in PEP 8So maybe rename  to  (it's the convention to be followed) However why can't you just rename  to  much simpler right?4) And finallyWhy  when you can simply do Can't understand this take a look at this example:See  would just take each and every item from a group of something ( iterable (list,tuple,set etc..))So just change those lines toAnd voila you got what you wanted,Output:UPDATE:As mentioned in comments you need to learn more about indentation. Check out the link in the comments.
You shouldn't use  as a variable, since it's a built-in in Python, besides, convert your  to a float type when adding it to another float, also notice you never use your initialized , you are missing that when calculating :
I have corrected what is causing your issue, you are in fact passing in 'n' into receipt instead of 'array'. Additional issues are:indentation (I suspect that was just copy paste)input will also give you errors the way you are using it, take a look at this to solve that issueConsider also making your loop based on the value of n as while true is generally unsafeor at least changing your if statement to be 'not n' as point out here is more pythonic. Also in the future make sure to note the version of python you are using.
Dont use  as a variable name, it is a Python built-in.Fixed:Some words of advice:When writing a function, its better to be explicit rather thanimplicit. So use variables that make sense!We can use the same variable names because Python uses the LEBGrulefor variable scope.When calculating a price (which we know usually ends in 2 decimals)its better to use integers rather than floats as you will run intothe [problem](Limiting floats to two decimal points)with floating point numbers.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#input
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#sum
