Natural Text
What is the precise rule used in Python in order to sort lists wherethe elements are lists? Can this be expressed as a 'key' or 'cmp' function? The problems comes from the fact that there are two thingsto consider: length and values at their position. Is it safe to assume that the second line will sort before the first?Is it safe to assume that the third line will sort always last?Note, this is not about stability! The specific case above behavesthat way as described. But, can the rules there be considered tobe general? What are the precise rules which python applies here?Relying on the following definition Lexicographical Order (Thanks to Ashniwi):To compare sequences of different lengths, the shorter sequence is  usually padded at the end with enough "blanks" (a special symbol that  is treated as smaller than every element of A). This way of comparing  sequences of different lengths is always used in dictionaries.  However, in combinatorics, another convention is frequently used,  whereby a shorter sequence is always smaller than a longer sequence.  This variant of the lexicographical order is sometimes called shortlex  order.Is Python using 'shortlex order'. Where is proof for that assumption,beyond practical examples?
Quoting from docs:In particular, tuples and lists are compared lexicographically by  comparing corresponding elements. This means that to compare equal,  every element must compare equal and the two sequences must be of the  same type and have the same length.Lexicographical comparison between built-in collections works as follows:For two collections to compare equal, they must be of the same type, have the same length, and each pair of corresponding elements must compare equal (for example,  is false because the type is not the same).Collections that support order comparison are ordered the same as their first unequal elements (for example,  has the same value as ). If a corresponding element does not exist, the shorter collection is ordered first (for example,  is true).The basic comparison done for lists can be expressed using this function:Demo:Related CPython code for reference:
By default,  uses the  method of the items that are compared. And lists with comparable elements are compared lexicographically, according to the Python documentation. So yes, the language guarantees that in the shorter string will be sorted before the longer string.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#common-sequence-operations
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#value-comparisons
