Natural Text
I am attempting to create a program that cycles through a list of .txt files and adds their filename and contents to a dictionary. The program is navigating to the folder correctly, and I can even print out a the names of the files in the folder. However, when I try to add the filename and contents to the dictionary I get this error in the console,I am not sure why the files are not being recognized as existing once I try to manipulate them. Thank you all in advance for taking the time to look at this. Please let me know if anything needs to be clarified. I am new to programming and want to make sure I am communicating well. Thanks again.  
filename is just the base name, like dump.0001.txt.If you want to open the file, you need either a full path, like C:\Users\Christian Gentry\AppData\Local\Autodesk\Revit\Autodesk Revit 2018\Journals\dump0001.txt. (It could also be a relative path from the current working directory, but it has to be a path that gets you to the file.)You're already doing that for listdir—you're not just passing Journals and expecting that to work—and it's the same idea here.The simplest fix is:While we're at it:You've only escaped one of the backslashes in your Windows pathnames. Technically, what you have is correct, because all of the other path components happen to start with letters that aren't valid backslash escapes, but that's really not a good thing to rely on. Either use a raw string literal, escape all the backslashes, or use forward slashes.You don't need to fsencode the path to pass to listdir and fsdecode the results you get back. If you just pass a string in, Python will automatically encode them appropriately and automatically decode the results for you.Consider using pathlib instead of os; it's a little easier to understand for novices, its help is a lot easier to navigate, and it makes it harder to get a lot of little things wrong. Before 3.6 it wasn't usable with large chunks of the stdlib, but you're using 3.6, so that doesn't matter.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html#module-pathlib
