Natural Text
My aim is build a log parser which will copy selected lined between keywords I want and write to a file. Since I would have to search between multiple keywords in single file hence I thought of writing a function and using it multiple times in my script.However I am unable to achieve this with following script and getting an error:I am getting following error:
This makes  a list of lines in the file . So when you later call , you are trying to close a list, which of course does not work.Instead, you need to close the file, i.e. :In general, it’s a good idea to change the variable names in a way so it’s obvious what they contain.  is a file object which you read from, so that’s okay.  is a file name of the file you want to write to, so you should name it  or something instead.  is a list of lines in the , so you should call it maybe .You should also avoid having to close file objects manually; instead, use the  statement to make sure that they are closed automatically:Finally, there is another issue with your code:  This will search for the string  in the line; it will not respect the values that are being passed to the function and are stored in the  (and ) variables. So you need to remove the quotes there:  (you also don’t need to convert the line to a string).Also, using  if you only evaluate its truth-value is not really the best way. Instead, use  which only returns the first result (so for really long lines, you wouldn’t keep searching if you already found a result). And if  and  won’t contain actual regular expressions but just strings you want to find in the line, then you should also just use the  operator:One final note: File handles should always be closed from the same level they are opened from. So if you open a file handle inside a function, then that function should also close it. If you open a file on the outside of the function, then the function should not close it. It is the opener’s responsibility to close the file, and for other instances to close files may result in wrong behavior, so you shouldn’t do it (unless it’s explicitly documented, e.g. a function  may close the file).Using the  statement generally avoids this, as you never call  manually, and the  statement already makes sure that the file is correctly closed.If you want to consume a file multiple times, then you would have to seek to the beginning in order to be able to read from it again. In your case, since you are using  to read the whole file into memory, it’s a better idea to just read the lines once from the file and then reuse it for multiple function calls:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/io.html#io.IOBase.seek
