Natural Text
I am a complete (GCSE) beginner in python.I am trying to add the numbers in an integer. My variable FNT comes out as a different number every time (depending on what I have inputted earlier) and I then need the numbers to add themselves.    E.g.  FNT=19 I now need the number to do this- 1+9=10       1+0=1                                                                                                                                                        The numbers need to keep adding themselves until they are a single digit but the number could be different every time. All help is greatly appreciated but, as I said I am a complete beginner and probably won't be able to understand anything too complicated, so would anybody know how to do this?                
There are two approaches: the mathematical way and the way that uses the fact that strings are iterables in python.The mathematical way uses modulo () and integral division () to decompose a number into digits:You can improve this code using the  function:The iterable string way:Neither of those code deal with input validation, so if your user enter something else than an integer, the code will crash. You might need to handle that.I recommend using the mathematical way since it is faster. Timmings (removing  and ) are:
To sum all the digits of a number, you can try a one-liner like this:You can apply that repeatedly until the result is less than 10: now stores your result.
This might not be the most optimized, but it should do it:EDIT: if FNT = 19, list(str(FNT)) returns ['1', '9']. The list comprehension [int(i) for i in list(str(FNT))] returns [1, 9] (notice these are now integers)
There are better ways of doing this but as a programming exercise this should give you some insight. convert the input number into a string and iterate over the digits, repeat until the answer is single digit.
This is done in java, but its still the same logic to be used  in python.I made use of a , to split the numbers, then i converted each of the splitted number to an integer, and added them up. I now used an  to check if the sum is greater than or equal to 10. if so, then i repeat the process again. This is the programOutput


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#divmod
