Natural Text
I'm trying to get if statements to run and it seems only the 1st one will run the others are just skipped.  I have tried adding else and dummy action and still skips over the other.  I have been playing with the for a couple days and can't seem to get it to check all the if statements.if anyone has a simple solution I would like to hear it.  This seems like something that should be simple but it's not working as expected.  I looked up all the info on if elif and else and can't find anything that's close to this.
The issue with your code is not with the if statements, but with the for loop you have over the file f. That kind of loop will consume the contents of the file the first time you run it. If you try looping over the file again in one of the later if blocks, there will be nothing to loop over.There are a few ways you can fix the issue.One is to open the file in the if blocks, rather than once at the top of the while. This way, each of the inner loops gets its own file to iterate over:In that code I'm using a with statement in each place I open f, as that will close the file automatically when the block ends. I would recommend using with for your other files as well.Another approach would be to rewind the file object to the start before you loop over it. You can do this with f.seek(0). I'd put one before each of your loops, as it doesn't hurt to seek to the start of the file if you're already there. Note that the ability to seek forwards and backwards is an idiosyncratic feature of files in Python. Most iterators cannot do that. They are one-shot and once you've consumed them, there's no way to go back.A final option is to read the lines from your file into a list or other data structure and iterate over that instead of over the file. You can either do f.readlines() or just list(f) to get a list of lines, and you can iterate over the list as many times as you want. Or, since you're writing the contents of the file based on the push variable at the top of the while loop, maybe you can skip the file all together and just use something like push.splitlines().
Put print statements under each if statement and you will see that they are in fact running.The problem is that once you iterate over the file object once, it reaches the end. The next time you iterate, it's already at the end and does nothing.You either need to reset the file location, or close the file and read it again each time. Read the I/O section of the Python tutorial. https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html
