Natural Text
Consider this Python script:and this Perl script:python3 pipe.py | head -n3000 >/dev/null produces an error:butperl pipe.pl | head -n3000 >/dev/null produces no error (in Perl v5.26.1).Why such a discrepancy between Python and Perl? How to make Perl to produce a similar error message?
What's going on here is that in both cases you have a process writing to a pipe whose read end was closed (by head exiting after a certain number of bytes).This causes a SIGPIPE signal to be sent to the writing process. By default this kills the process. The process can ignore the signal if it wants to, which just makes the write call fail with an EPIPE error.Starting with version 3.3, Python raises a BrokenPipeError exception in this case, so it looks like Python 1) ignores SIGPIPE by default and 2) translates EPIPE to a BrokenPipeError exception.Perl does not ignore or handle signals by default. That means it gets killed by SIGPIPE in your example, but because it is not the last command in a pipeline (that would be head here), the shell just ignores it. You can make it more visible by not using a pipeline:This piece of bash trickery makes perl write to a pipe, but not as part of a shell pipeline. I can't test it now, but at minimum this will set $? (the command exit status) to 141 in the shell (128 + signal number, which for SIGPIPE is 13), and it may also report a Broken pipe.You can deal with it manually in the Perl code, though:Variant 1: Throw an error from the signal handlerVariant 2: Ignore the signal, handle write errorsNote that in this case you have to think about buffering, however. If you don't enable autoflush (as in STDOUT->autoflush(1)) and output is going to a pipe or file, Perl will collect the text in an internal buffer first (and the print call will succeed). Only when the buffer gets full (or when the filehandle is closed, whichever happens first) is the text actually written out and the buffer emptied. This is why close can also report write errors.
The python exception is raised since the reading process (head) closes its end so the script receives SIGPIPE the next time it attempts to write; see this post. This involved decisions in Python community, to change defaults so to inform the user (see the linked post).This is not seen in Perl because it gets killed by that signal (what is its disposition) without saying anything. So you could override that(without the $| = 1 I need more than 5_000 above for it to happen.)Or, rather issue a warning (instead of die) so that the program continuesUpdate   Given the clarification provided in a comment I'd recommend this handler to be global in fact. It can still be overriden with a local one in particular scopes. Besides, there is nothing wrong with surviving a SIGPIPE instead of being terminated, as long as there is a warning.Note that even without that the exit status of the Perl process will show the problem. Run echo $? after the process "completes" (is quietly terminated); I get 32 on my system.To mimic Python's behavior further you could issue a die in the signal handler and handle that exception, by putting it all in eval.Thanks to melpomene and ikegami for comments.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.3.html#pep-3151
