Natural Text
I have a problem I'd be very grateful for help with.Specifically, I have a gigantic text file; I need to replace specific strings in it with entries from a dictionary. Usefully, the words I need to replace are named in sequential fashion: 'Word1', 'Word2', ... , 'Wordn'.Now, I'd like to write a 'for' loop that loops across the file, and for all instances of 'Wordx' replaces it with dictionary[x]. The problem, of course, is that 'Wordx' requires the 'x' part to function as a variable, which (so far as I know) can't be done inside a string. Does anyone have workaround? I tried looking at regular expressions, but found nothing obvious (possibly because I also found it somewhat confusing).(Note that I can when I generate the text file, I have complete control over the form the words I want to replace can take: i.e., it need not be 'Word11; it can be 'Wordeleven' or 'wordXI' or anything ascii at all.)   Edit: To add more detail, as requested: my text file is an export of the javascript behind a survey file. The original survey software only allows me to enter text prompts one at a time (as opposed to pipe the in from a csv), but I have several thousand text prompts to enter (the words). My plan is to manually enter about 100 words ('Word1, ..., 'Word100'), export the survey javascript as a text file, write a script to replace the words with dictionary entries, import the resulting files, and join them into a new survey.However, the issue remains whether I can use the number portion of a string as a variable to loop across
With , you can pass it a function instead of a replacement string. This function can look up the replacement from a dictionary. For example:Hello foo, this is baz. How is bar?
Does that framework solve your needs? A string is not a variable: a string is a value which can be calculated, while a variable is a name, which (usually) is not calculated. With more difficulty you can also set strings like 'WordEleven' and so on.
I suppose the text file you were talking was like this:Hi! This is word1I like to swim, word2 and word3 ....if so, then you can read line by line, split lines and replace words with values from dictionary, whose keys would be int(word[-1])Here is the code,now direct terminal output to another file withHope that helps :)


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#re.sub
