Natural Text
I am having following data:I want to iterate it in my django template. As shown these are two records with 2 keys in each(mp and user) each record belong to particular user. So I wnat to it such that I get mps of user and detail of user. But when I try to iterate it as explained in below answer or any other answer through out SO I every time get bizarre results. mp can contains further multiple records but I am stuck at first iteration only. I am very new to python , it is my 3rd day working. Any guidance would save my day.As soon as I apply below:and I got this Output which break downs the structure:One query: Is it even possible to get desired results from the data I have. I want to iterate it to get mp and user and then I want to iterate mp to get multiple records within it. As whenever I tried iterating up to any level I get all the records so keys "mp and user" are not solving my purpose.I don't want to waste any one's time here.I have updated the question. Thanks for answers till now. Update:Following is the method I used and got desired results:Results: At last I got desired output with C14L's help (Amazing guidance). Thanks to "ajabdelaziz" and others too.
For Python3, calling  gives you the items.For Python2 use :In Django template:Docs: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#looping-techniquesEdit:To add to the answer, looking at your specific objectlook at this part: 'mp': u '[{"fields": {"stThat is not a , it is a string: When you loop a string, you get the individual characters the string contains, one by one. Hence the "strange" result.Edit 2:Both  and  contain listsso, for example to print all usernames, you can doTo print the list of  items, you can doBut each  object has probably a number of attributes. You need to look up what your  class definition looks like.
From what I'm seeing based on your error, is that you're trying to iterate over mp which has a value with dictionaries and lists in them.  Because of the different data types, you cannot just use  only.  You'll need to use  to get the mp's value in key,value.  then you'll have to deal with iterating over the list then the key, values again.  C14L's answer shows how to do that in templates just don't forget about your datatypes!i.e - item would be the list that you can then iterate over to get additional key value pairs.  Another possible solution is to do most of this in a template tag filter.  and then just apply the filter onto the selected variable you want it to filter out.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#looping-techniques
