Natural Text
I am using Python 3.5 on a Windows 7 computer.I am trying to run a python script designed to run in Linux found in this bookLearning Python Network Programming by Dr. M. O. Faruque Sarker and Sam Washington Jun 17, 2015Chapter 6. IP and DNSGeoIP look-ups..........The code is saved in my C drive as        C:\Python35\geoiplookup.pyI had renamed it from "6_3_geoip_lookup.py"to "geoiplookup.py"..........Here is the code and also shown in a more user friendly image at http://imgur.com/PM196AV ....................This script will show an output similar to the following (in Linux):..........I tried running the .py file in Python GUI shell in Windows using the following commands without success. Please see picture at http://imgur.com/wZ4m1S5..........Before you accused me of not trying this in the command line:I have, and I got an error message:Please advise . Thanks a million.Thank you very much.
You aren't running the Python script, you're in the Python interpreter and attempting to run each line of code.Look at your Linux output:That first line is important. That is what you should be running on your Windows command line:
In a Windows command prompt, run the following commands:
EDIT: It looks like on Python 3.5 the geoip package is having issues (I found someone reporting an issue here that has the same error message as you on a different method). the commenters seem to be mentioning that the package looks abandoned, although I have not checked into that myself. As a result, I think this workaround is probably your best option going forward.I don't think this is an issue of Linux vs Windows. I attempted to run your script on my Mac machine and got the same result as you did on Windows. I tried to look into the error you were getting a little bit more, and I found an article mentioning that they used another package instead since it supported Python 3. That package was maxminddb-geolite2.It has a bit of a different format than what you were using, but here is my code:As you can see, it is fairly similar in syntax, but just has a slightly different twist. My output from this script (without the pretty print):Here is the pretty print output from the dictionary in case you were wondering how I knew where to access to get the output you wanted from the match dictionary:If you would like to do this, all you have to do is this:More information on pretty print here.I know this isn't a direct answer to what is going on, but I will update my answer if I actually figure out what the real issue is at hand. Until then, have this workaround :).
Another solution is to add PYTHONIOENCODING (a Python-specific environment variable) to your Windows Path environment variable . The code will run but the Russian and Asian characters will still be replaced with ??? like the output in Solution 1..........i.e.Add this Python-specific environment variablePYTHONIOENCODING=utf-8to your Windows Path environment variablei.e.Windows 7 --- > Control Panel --- > System --- > Advanced system settings (on the left hand side) --- > Advanced --- > Environment Variables --- > System variables (bottom box) --- > Path --- > Edit --- > Paste this to the end of the long line at the end:;PYTHONIOENCODING=utf-8;..........Then type this into Windows command prompt...........--- > Output:
Solved:Follow Kush131's    pprint code to solve my challenge. If you are using Python 3.5 in Windows , you need to do these extra steps to get the output Kush131 could get in Mac.After You will still have problems getting Russian and Asian characters output printed in your command line tool in Windows because "windows console has poor support for encodings like UTF-8". In other words, "running Python from the Windows console, which, by default only, supports your local 8bit charmap." There are 2 solutions I have found so far:..........Solution 1 (can print the whole output in Windows command line but still not the Russian and Asian characters, replacing them with ???)..........Solution 2 with these 3 lines right below solve the problem with the desired output found in "output_utf8.txt"If you don't use the solution you could get this error in you Windows command prompt:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pprint.html
