Natural Text
So I have a list:And I want the output to be:How can I do this in python?If I do , I get one with quotes, but I don't want quotes.
In Python 2:In Python 3 (where  is a builtin function and not a syntax feature anymore):Both return:This is using the  function to call str for each element of mylist, creating a new list of strings that is then joined into one string with . Then, the  string formatting operator substitutes the string in instead of  in .
If you are using Python3:
This is simple code, so if you are new you should understand it easily enough.It prints all of them without quotes, like you wanted.
Using only print:
Instead of using , I'd recommend using a generator expression with the capability of  to accept an iterator:Here,  is a member function of the string class . It takes one argument: a list (or iterator) of strings, then returns a new string with all of the elements concatenated by, in this case, .
You can delete all unwanted characters from a string using its  method with  for the  argument followed by a string containing the character(s) you want removed for its  argument.If you're using a version of Python before 2.6, you'll need to use the  module's  function instead because the ability to pass  as the  argument wasn't added until Python 2.6. Using it looks like this:Using the  function will also work in 2.6+, so using it might be preferable.
Here's an interactive session showing some of the steps in @TokenMacGuy's one-liner. First he uses the  function to convert each item in the list to a string (actually, he's making a new list, not converting the items in the old list). Then he's using the string method  to combine those strings with  between them. The rest is just string formatting, which is pretty straightforward. (Edit: this instance is straightforward; string formatting in general can be somewhat complex.)Note that using  is a simple and efficient way to build up a string from several substrings, much more efficient than doing it by successively adding strings to strings, which involves a lot of copying behind the scenes.
Using  for string formatting,Output:Explanation: is used to map each element of the list to  type.The elements are joined together into a string with  as separator.We use  and  in the print statement to show the list braces.Reference:  for string formatting PEP-3101
This is another way... maybe a little bit more labourious...You will remove ´\n´and this way you can concatenate the strings.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#map
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html?highlight=join#str.join
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#calls
