Natural Text
I am using a third party software that I can run in command line which consists of the .exe file as well as several switches that pass through arguments. The goal is to script this using Python but I am a beginner to programming in Python and could use some help in translating the following command line in Python. The arguments are seperated by "/" and the arguments are /inbook1, /inbook2, /reportSo, would anyone be able to help me call this command using Python?
You want to use the  module.Exactly how you want to use it depends on exactly what you want to do. For example, do you want to let the program's output mix in with your output, or do you want to capture it to a string? Do you want to wait until it's done, or kick it off in the background?Fortunately, the documentation is pretty clear, and explains how to do each thing you might want to do.Meanwhile, I'm 95% sure you've gotten some of the quotes wrong on your command line. For example, the  argument starts with a , which isn't closed until the start of the  argument.Anyway, trying to guess what you might want, here's one possibility:The  function runs the program, waits for it to finish, raises an exception if it finishes with an error return code, and returns the program's output as a string (or, in Python 3, a ).The extra double quotes probably aren't necessary here (especially since there are no spaces in your pathnames), but since they were in your original code, I left them as-is. Generally, Python will do whatever is necessary to get each separate argument treated as a single argument by the target program, even if you have arguments that have spaces or quotes in them, so you don't have to worry about that.Mweanwhile, if it's easier to write the arguments as one big string, instead of as a list of four separate strings, you can do that instead. (Only on Windows; don't do it on Unix unless you're using .) But usually that just means more opportunities to get the quoting wrong, and since you appear to have already gotten it wrong multiple times, I think you're better off this way.
I'm a newbie, but would you like to try this code:---EDIT---I've edited so much according to @Abarnert's suggestions that this code is more his than mine, so don't up-vote me. I'm leaving the solution for sake of the fact that now it should work.The code:Thanks @Abarnert!


Answer URL
