Natural Text
The first part of the question is to check if input A and input B are anagrams, which I can do easily enough.The problem is the second part of the question - I need to check if two words are anagrams if all of the punctuation is removed, the upper case letters turned to lower case, but the question assumes no spaces are used. So, for example, (ACdB;,.Eo,."kl) and (oadcbE,LK) are anagrams. The question also asks for loops to be used. Currently, the above code is saying the string index is out of range.
Here's the loop you need to add, in psuedocode:Except of course that you need to add the same thing for  as well. If you've learned about functions, you will want to write this as a function, and call it twice, instead of copying and pasting it with minor changes.
There are three big problems with your loop. You need to solve all three of these, not just one.First,  doesn't replace the th character with a space, it replaces the th character and every other copy of the same character with a space. That's going to screw up the rest of your loop if there are any duplicates. It's also very slow, because you have to search the entire string over and over again.The right way to replace the character at a specific index is to use slicing: . Or, you could make this a lot simpler by turning the string into a list of characters (), you can mutate it in-place ().Next, we're going through the loop 6 times, checking , , , , , and . But somewhere along the way, we're going to remove some of the characters (ideally three of them). So some of those indices will be past the end of the string, which will raise an . I won't explain how to fix this yet, because it ties directly into the next problem.Modifying a sequence while you loop over it always breaks your loop.* Imagine starting with . Let's step through the loop., so you check , which is , so you remove it, leaving ., so you check , which is , so you remove it, leaving ., so you check , which is , so you leave it, leaving .And so on.The  got moved to  by removing the . But you're never going to come back to  once you've passed it. So, you're never going to check the . You can solve this in a few different ways—iterating backward, doing a  instead of an  each time through the , etc.—but most of those solutions will just exacerbate the previous problem.The easy way to solve both problems is to just not modify the string while you loop over it. You could do this by, e.g., building up a list of indexes to remove as you go along, then applying that in reverse order.But a much easier way to do it is to just build up the characters you want to keep as you go along. And that also solves the first problem for your automatically.So:And with that relative minor change, your code works.While we're at it, there are a few ways you're overcomplicating things.First, you don't need to do ; you can just do . This makes things a lot more readable.But, even more simply, you can just use the  or  method. (Since you've already converted to , and you're only dealing with one character at a time, it doesn't really matter which.) Besides being more readable, and harder to get wrong, this has the advantage of working with non-ASCII characters, like .Finally, you almost never want to write a loop like this:That forces you to write  all over the place, when you could have just looped over  in the first place:So, putting it all together, here's your code, with the two simple fixes, and the cleanup:If you know about comprehensions or higher-order functions, you'll recognize this pattern as exactly what a list comprehension does. So, you can turn the whole 4 lines of code that build  into either of these one-liners, which are more readable as well as being shorter:And in fact, the whole thing can become a one-liner:But your teacher asked you to use a  statement, so you'd better keep it as a  statement.* This isn't quite true. If you only modify the part of the sequence after the current index, and you make sure the sequence aways has the right length by the time you get to each index even though it may have had a different length before you did (using a  loop instead of a  loop, to reevaluate  each time, makes this part trivial instead of hard), then it works. But it's easier to just never do it to than learn the rules and carefully analyze your code to see if you're getting away with it this time.


Answer URL
