Natural Text
I've programmed a game that takes a song and artist name from an external file. The program prints the artist name but masks the title of the song, and the user must guess the title correctly to earn points. That works fine, but I want to add a time limit, so they only have 60secs to get the highest score they possibly can.Here's the part of the code I'm referencing:I've tried playing around with this concept, but no luck thus far:UPDATE 1My projects code has now changed quite a far bit
Here's how to do it with the threading.Timer() class I suggested in a comment. These can be configured to delay a specified amount of time and the call as function of your choosing.In the code below I've defined a callback function named timeout() and a global variable named time_ran_out that it sets to True when the timer expires. There's comments in the added code describing what's being done. All the callback function does is set the value of a variable. Other code in the pickSong_random() function checks the value of this variable to determine if the callback function got called or not.The nice thing about Timer instances (and functions they callback) is that their execution occurs in the background, in parallel with the the main thread which is running the game itself—so using them doesn't impact game's execution or code very much.Note I also reformatted your code so it follows PEP 8 - Style Guide for Python Code guides so it's a lot more readable (and easier to work on) in my opinion.
It turns out you were actually reassigning the "time" module to an integer of 60, overwriting the library, which is why it had no attribute ".sleep()". Also the countdown part is irrelevant and a bit redundant. Anyways, this revised bit of code worked for me:Hope this helps!
Simply record the start time, and break from your loop if the time is up. By sleeping you make your program hibernate and the user can not do anything. So "fasteness" does not make any difference because you can't do anything while the program sleeps:Output:
While Om Agarwal may have a possible solution, you may also want to consider using a non-blocking approach in your game using the built-in pygame time.Cheers!Edit 1: Added example modification.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/threading.html#timer-objects
https://docs.python.org/3/library/threading.html#timer-objects
