Natural Text
I am trying to create Mel or Python script for Maya, which would move the camera through a square matrix, row by row. It would be great to be able to enter the custom row/column value (N).I sketched an algorithm I need, but sadly lack the knowledge to implement the code.Any help on the code side would be greatly appreciated - thank you.
While @BrendanAbels answer is sound, it sidesteps what Maya is used for. Maya is used for animation, and as such you quite rarely want to move things in your code (this way, as it serves no purpose). What you instead want is that your code initiates a node structure that accomplishes what you want. The advantage of building nodes is as follows:Maya will build a GUI for you. A GUI that any competent Maya user knows how to operate modify and animate.You can change the inner working of your structure later or animate the inputs.This embeds your code in the Maya file so that it can be resumed later.Ok, so how do we do this. There are several ways. We could use ramp and lookup nodes. Or we can do it the straight way and directly hook up a expression node. So what does this look like in mel:Note how persp node has 3 new channels you can adjust. I hooked time to your node but you can hook up anything really. Driving it yourself allows you to do different things (or move the camera mid render pass if you wish). Your being a bit opaque on what you want to use this for so hard to say anything more. Suffice to say we could have solved your entire problem form start to finish with less work, and it is extremely unlikely that your doing anything we haven't seen before.
The main commands you'll want to use are ls, xform, currentTime, and setKeyFrameHere are the basics for a python script to set the transform positions.  You can use currentTime to change the time value and setKeyFrame to set keys.This script expects you to have the camera transform node selected (ie. the first ls command).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html
