Natural Text
I have the same question as was asked here but erroneously closedas a duplicate of another related question:How can a Python library raise an exception in such a way that its owncode it not exposed in the traceback? The motivation is to make itclear that the library function was called incorrectly: the offendingline in the caller should appear to bear the blame, rather than theline inside the library that (deliberately, and correctly) raised theexception.As pointed out in Ian's comment on the closed question, this is notthe same as asking how you can adjust the code in the caller to changethe way a traceback appears.My failed attempt is below.At the line marked , I have tried modifying the attributes of, e.g.  but this results in. I have also attempted to create aduck-typed object with the same attributes as  but this fails during, with .(My attempts to outwit this by subclassing  are met with ).Tweaking the  object itself may in any case be the wrong Y for this X - perhaps there are other strategies?Let's suppose Alice writes the following library:Now, suppose Alice releases the library, and Bob downloads it.  Bob writes code that calls it as follows:The point is that, as things stand without a working , the traceback will show the exception as originating from line 17 of Alice's library.  Therefore, Bob (or a significant subpopulation of the Bobs out there) will email Alice saying "hey, your code is broken on line 17."  But in fact,  knew exactly what it was doing in issuing the exception. Alice can try her best to re-word the exception to make it as clear as possible that the library was called wrongly, but the traceback draws attention away from this fact. The place where the mistake was actually made was line 4 of Bob's code. Furthermore, Alice's code knows this, and so it's not a misplacement of authority to allow Alice's code to assign the blame where it belongs. Therefore, for greatest possible transparency and to reduce the volume of support traffic, the traceback should go no deeper than line 4 of Bob's code, without Bob having to code this behavior himself.mattbornski provides a "you shouldn't be wanting to do this" answer here which I think misses an important point. Sure, if you say "it's not my fault" and shift the blame, you don't know that you're necessarily shifting the blame to the right place.  But you do know that you () have gone to the effort of making an explicit type check on the input arguments you were handed, and that this check has succeeded (in the sense that the check itself did not raise an exception) with a negative result.  And sure, Bob's code may not be "at fault" in the sense that perhaps it did not generate the invalid input - maybe Bob is just passing that argument on from somewhere else.  But the difference is that he has passed it on without checking.  If Bob goes to the effort of checking, and the checking code itself doesn't raise an exception, then Bob should feel free to  too, thereby helping the users of his code.
You could redefine the function  as in this answer:This requires Python 3.5 for 
I think the Pythonic Y to your X would be changing your code so that the exception is raised by the failure itself. In this case, rather than doing an explicit type check and then calling an exception raising method, practice EAFP and just add 1 to whatever they pass in and let that raise an error if it doesn't work. If for some reason you need to explicitly limit to those two types, add  to the start of your function, and let type validation raise the error. If the line of code at the bottom of the stacktrace in Alice's library isn't the "real" source of the exception, don't try to hide that line of code, restructure the code itself so that the stacktrace tells you what actually went wrong. That will make Alice's code easier to maintain, and Bob can chase the stack back into his own code to see where his problem started.
There has been no good/direct/authoritative answer to the problem. I issued the bounty under the category "authoritative reference needed" and the closest thing to that have been Martijn's comments, i.e.:the way to do it definitively is to alter the traceback object or generate a new one;this cannot be done in pure Python, but must be done by mucking about with unsupported API infrastructure;this isn't worth it.I suspected as much. So unless/until anyone can actually provide the authoritative reference to the impossibility of this approach, I'll post it here as the "accepted" answer.But I don't accept that it's not a worthwhile wish-list item for Python.  The question has generated a fair amount of "you shouldn't be wanting to do this" sentiment with which I still disagree:  Sure, Bob should learn to read tracebacks properly, but what's wrong with making it easier for him to do so - help Alice to help him direct his attention to the right place? The scenario of Bob being naïve enough to reach out to Alice and report a bug in her code was an exaggerated (albeit possible) example to make the point clear. More likely, he'll just have an unnecessary 2-second pause as he thinks "problem on line 17 of... oh wait, no, the caller is the problem".  But why not spare him that, and make the programming UX smoother?  Python's philosophy seems to me to have revolved around removing exactly this kind of friction.Sure, any putative  could be used indiscriminately, or otherwise abused, by Alice, and hence could make things more confusing for Bob rather than less. To me that's a spurious argument since it would apply equally to any number of other unwise coding decisions Alice could make,  and indeed to many powerful features that already exist in Python and in other languages. The worth of a sharp tool should be judged on its value when used correctly in compliance with instructions and safety warnings.Anyway, the bounty deadline is approaching and if I do nothing I believe half the bounty goes to the highest-voted answer. Currently that's Tore's, but to me the idea of just adding 1 and letting Bob do the detective work is the opposite of what I'm driving at:  that makes it look more like there's a problem in Alice's code. Bob might become a better programmer from the intellectual exercise of tracing the problem, but he might be in a hurry, and anyway by that logic we'd all be programming on the bare metal.  So I'll award the bounty to yinnonsanders' answer, not because it's a full and satisfactory solution but because it's at least aligned with the spirit of the question and might work in some situations.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/traceback.html#traceback.walk_tb
