Natural Text
My Django app has a number of categories for things which I store in a Category model. I reference these frequently in code, and so I've found it useful to have a module with references ("constants") to these categories and groups of them, so typos will fail fast. This also provides the benefit of caching. And finally, it's the actual model so it has all the related functionality. It looks something like this:However, this results in import-time database access and causes various issues. After adding a new category with a reference like this, I must run a data migration before ./manage.py will function. I just hit a new problem while switching to using Django's test framework, which is that these load from the default (e.g., dev or prod) database rather than the test one as explicitly mentioned in this warning.If your code attempts to access the database when its modules are  compiled, this will occur before the test database is set up, with  potentially unexpected results. For example, if you have a database  query in module-level code and a real database exists, production data  could pollute your tests. It is a bad idea to have such import-time  database queries in your code anyway - rewrite your code so that it  doesn’t do this.What's the best pattern for obtaining the benefits of these references while avoiding the import-time database access?One possible solution is a proxy pattern which returns a pseudo-Category which forwards all the model's functionality but does not access the database until it's necessary. I'd like to see how others have solved this problem with this approach or another solution.(Related but different question: Django test. Finding data from your production database when running tests?)Final ApproachThe approach by @kevin-christopher-henry's worked well for me. However, in addition to fixing these declared references, I also had to delay access to the references from other code. Here I found two approaches helpful. First, I discovered Python Lazy Object Proxy. This simple object takes a factory function as input, which is lazily executed to produce the wrapped object.A similar way of accomplishing the same thing was pushing code into factory functions decorated with memoize so they'd only be executed once.NOTE: I initially tried to use the Proxy object above as a direct solution to my problem of lazy access to model objects. However, despite being very good imitations, when querying and filtering on these objects I got: Sure enough, Proxy returns True for callable (even though docs say this doesn't guarantee it's callable). It seems that Django queries are just too smart and bound to find something incompatible with a phoney model.  For your application, Proxy might be good enough.
I've run into the same issue myself, and agree that it would be great to have some best practices here.I ended up with an approach based on the descriptor protocol:Then in my model classes I have some special objects:So nothing happens at import time. The first time the special object is accessed, the relevant instance is looked up (and created, if necessary) and cached.
There's not much you can do with module-level variables, since you cannot override their access functions. However you can do that for class and instance variables via __getattribute__. You can use that to load your categories lazily:Instead of module.DOGS you would then use module.Categories.DOGS. Upon the first access the category is loaded and stored for future lookups.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/descriptor.html
