Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:Find and replace string values in Python list                    4 answers                Simple way to remove multiple spaces in a string?                    21 answers                I have a list which hold data that was scraped from a website online. The list is something like this How do I remove "\n"Keeping in mind that it has to be done in a loop while scrapping so that the data is scraped, "\n" and the unwanted spaces are removed and the data is pushed into the csv.  
Removing the \n from the individual strings is fairly simple.You aren't very specific about what constitutes 'unwanted spaces' but with the simple assumption that it means two spaces in a row a simple approach would be .replace('  ', ' ') to remove doubled spaces.  Chain the two together and you end up with:This is both simple and fast.  However it doesn't remove all excess spaces.  For example a sequence of 3 or 4 spaces would become 2 spaces.  Instead you can use a combination of split and join to remove all excess whitespace.This splits the string at all whitespace (including newlines, tabs and other whitespace) and rejoins them using a single space.  If it does not meet your needs, a regular expression can be used, however regex parsing is not as efficient but is much more powerful.This replaces 2 or more spaces with a single space.Whichever method you use to clean up a single string, you still need to apply it to each element in the list.  If the method you choose is more complex, you should turn it into a method:A naive approach would be to rebuild the list with each element processed.  For example using a list generator:With a really large list this can be really inefficient.  The best approach is to use a generator which only processes a single element at a time without rebuilding the entire list.Notice how it looks almost identical to the string comprehension method.  You can iterate through it just like with a list:Keep in mind generators are consumed upon use so if you need to iterate through the results more than once, you may need to use a list instead.  A generator can be turned into a list though simply by doing:TL;DRThe simplest most efficient method would be to use split and join to remove excess whitespace, and use a generator for efficiency to avoid rebuilding the entire list:
try this:it uses list comprehension to iterate through list1 and creates a new list out of the original members with str.replace called on each item to replace the \n with an empty string.  more on python list comprehensions here.To remove spaces change the code above to 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#list-comprehensions
