Natural Text
Is there any ultimate difference between the following two code snippets? The first assigns a value to a variable in a function and then returns that variable. The second function just returns the value directly.Does Python turn them into equivalent bytecode? Is one of them faster?Case 1:Case 2:
No, it doesn't.The compilation to CPython byte code is only passed through a small peephole optimizer that is designed to do only basic optimizations (See test_peepholer.py in the test suite for more on these optimizations).To take a look at what's actually going to happen, use dis* to see the instructions generated. For the first function, containing the assignment:While, for the second function:Two more (fast) instructions are used in the first: STORE_FAST and LOAD_FAST. These make a quick store and grab of the value in the fastlocals array of the current execution frame. Then, in both cases, a RETURN_VALUE is performed. So, the second is ever so slightly faster due to less commands needed to execute.In general, be aware that the CPython compiler is conservative in the optimizations it performs. It isn't and doesn't try to be as smart as other compilers (which, in general, also have much more information to work with). The main design goal, apart from obviously being correct, is to a) keep it simple and b) be as swift as possible in compiling these so you don't even notice that a compilation phase exists.In the end, you shouldn't trouble yourself with small issues like this one. The benefit in speed is tiny, constant and, dwarfed by the overhead introduced by the fact that Python is interpreted. *dis is a little Python module that dis-assembles your code, you can use it to see the Python bytecode that the VM will execute. Note: As also stated in a comment by @Jorn Vernee, this is specific to the CPython implementation of Python. Other implementations might do more aggressive optimizations if they so desire, CPython doesn't.
Both are basically the same except that in the first case the object 42 is simply aassigned to a variable named a or, in other words, names (i.e. a) refer to values (i.e. 42) . It doesn't do any assignment technically, in the sense that it never copies any data.While returning, this named binding a is returned in the first case while the object 42 is return in the second case.For more reading, refer this great article by Ned Batchelder


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/dis.html#opcode-STORE_FAST
https://docs.python.org/3/library/dis.html#opcode-LOAD_FAST
https://docs.python.org/3/library/dis.html
