Natural Text
https://github.com/affinelayer/pix2pix-tensorflow/tree/master/toolsAn error occurred when compiling "process.py" on the above site.Traceback (most recent call last):What is the cause of the error?Python's version is 3.5.2.
Python tries to convert a byte-array (a bytes which it assumes to be a utf-8-encoded string) to a unicode string (str).  This process of course is a decoding according to utf-8 rules.  When it tries this, it encounters a byte sequence which is not allowed in utf-8-encoded strings (namely this 0xff at position 0).Since you did not provide any code we could look at, we only could guess on the rest.From the stack trace we can assume that the triggering action was the reading from a file (contents = open(path).read()).  I propose to recode this in a fashion like this:That b in the mode specifier in the open() states that the file shall be treated as binary, so contents will remain a bytes.  No decoding attempt will happen this way.
Use this solution it will strip out (ignore) the characters and return the string without them. Only use this if your need is to strip them not convert them.Using errors='ignore'You'll just lose some characters. but if your don't care about them as they seem to be extra characters originating from a the bad formatting and programming of the clients connecting to my socket server.Then its a easy direct solution.reference
Had an issue similar to this, Ended up using UTF-16 to decode. my code is below.this would take the file contents as an import, but it would return the code in UTF format. from there it would be decoded and seperated by lines.
I've come across this thread when suffering the same error, after doing some research I can confirm, this is an error that happens when you try to decode a UTF-16 file with UTF-8.With UTF-16 the first characther (2 bytes in UTF-16) is a Byte Order Mark (BOM), which is used as a decoding hint and doesn't appear as a character in the decoded string. This means the first byte will be either FE or FF and the second, the other.Heavily edited after I found out the real answer
use only instead of 
Read(r) the CSV details.csv file and encode by utf8. if error occurs ignore the error, This simply done by the following code.
Check the path of the file to be read. My code kept on giving me errors until I changed the path name to present working directory. The error was:
If you are on a mac check if you for a hidden file, .DS_Store. After removing the file my program worked. 
HitHere,you should load the "GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin.gz" file at first then extract it by this command in Ubuntu: gunzip -k GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin.gz. [ manually extracting is never recommended].secondly, you should apply these commands in pyrhon 3: import gensimmodel = gensim.models.Word2Vec.load_word2vec_format('./model/GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin', binary=True) .I hope it will be useful.
I have a similar problem. I try to run an example in tensorflow/models/objective_detection and met the same message.Try to change Python3 to Python2
If possible, open the file in a text editor and try to change the encoding to UTF-8. Otherwise do it programatically at the OS level. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/unicode.html#the-unicode-type
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/unicode.html#the-string-type
