Natural Text
Today I upgraded from pip 7.1.0 to 7.1.2, and now it doesn't work.So I tried reinstalling:The reinstall ran without error, but when I tried to search, I got the same error.    So, I tried reinstalling the old version:Again, the reinstall worked, but searching was still broken after the reinstall. In addition to the error, I did get the version upgrade message:Disabling the cache also gives the same error:The problem seems to only be with the search function, as pip still functions well enough to reinstall itself and such.I believe I have only installed one other package today, which was docker-compose. The problem occurs when I search for packages other than docker-compose, as in my examples.Any ideas?
I wasn't able to reproduce this with pip 7.1.2 and either Python 2.7.8 or 3.5.1 on Linux.The xmlrpclib docs have this to say on 'faults':Method calls may also raise a special Fault instance, used to signal  XML-RPC server errorsThis implies that pip is reporting a problem on the server (pypi) side.The Python Infrastructure Status site reports problems with pip search on 2015-09-11 and 2015-09-12.  I suspect that this is not a bug in pip, but a problem with pypi.python.org on the dates in question.This question was asked on 2015-09-11.A similar error was logged on the pypi bitbucket repo on 2015-09-11, reinforcing my theory.Interestingly, there is another similar bug logged at pypi's github repo.  In this case the search term is a regex:I can reproduce this error on Python 2.7.8 and Python3.5.1, pip-7.1.2 and pip-8.1.1 on Linux; however I can't see anything in the pip documentation to suggest that pip search supports regex, and this answer states regex is unsupported, so I think this is a separate issue unrelated to the OP's question.
 does this sometimes if no matches (hits) are found:::OKCould also be a server side bug, one that fails to provide the needed info. So, the fixing has to be done by  devs, or server devs, or both.
When I didn't receive an answer to this question last year, I posted an issue on GitHub, and it was determined my issue was caused by the PyPi/pip server being down (just the search part, I guess). I can't be certain, but it seems like there were more comments/answers to this question when it was active last year. I really thought someone had posted that answer here (at least in a comment or something), but it's obviously not here now.I think @tedder42 is having a different problem than I did because  there hasn't been any recent downtime at PyPi. Even if someone posted the real answer to his question, I would have no way to verify it. So, I think the best course of action is to ignore his bounty, and if he's still having the problem, it should be turned into a new question.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/xmlrpc.client.html
