Natural Text
I am trying to import a package present in another folder and it is working perfectly fine in python 3.4. For Example: the files are present in libraries folderHowever when I open a new shell and use Python 2.7:I tried adding the entry to  but it is not helping. I read a similar question here but the solution is not helping me either as I tried both relative and absolute imports. Please advice.EDIT: The directory structure being . I am executing these commands inside the tests directory.EDIT: I have added the sys.path entry as follows but it still does not recognize it. Please note that the error occurs on 2.7 but works absolutely fine on 3.4
Your  package is missing the  file. You can create an empty file with that name and then:should work.Alternatively, if you don't want to turn  into a package you should add its path to  and import :Note that the error is due to the fact that python2 requires the existence of  to import from packages while python3.3+ provides namespace packages (see PEP420). That's why the import doesn't fail in python3.4.If you want your code to work in both python2 and python3 in the same way you should always add  file to packages and use  in your files.
See PEP 0404. In Python 3, implicit relative imports within packages are no longer available - only absolute imports and explicit relative imports are supported. In addition, star imports (e.g. from x import *) are only permitted in module level code.If  was in the same directory this would have happened to avoid clashes with packages installed at the system level. It would have been an implicit relative import.You should be able to navigate to the correct location of the module using , like:But your case seems to be related to the star import. In Python 3 you can only use star imports () at the top level of the file, i.e. not inside a function or class definition.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/import.html#namespace-packages
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/import.html#namespace-packages
