Natural Text
The Incorrect-Dimiss button erases on click and when Return key is pressed, but if I enter anything afterwards, nothing happens. The issue is that if I enter it correct, the login button pops up and it works. If I enter it incorrect, the dismiss button pops up, and clicking or pressing enter erases it. Now, anything I enter after an incorrect attempt whether correct or incorrect does nothing.(1) In order to avoid this, I was wondering if the program could just restart on clicking/pressing enter the dismiss button, without the window closing, or another reopening, but I do not know how to do this. (2)Also is there a max login attempts code that ends/restarts the program and if so how would I place it in this code? (something like if >3 incorrect then quit)Here is the code (python3)- try it for yourself if you would like:Instead of destroying the button I want this to restart the program but cannot find the correct command. This would destroy the button since it doesn't exist at the beginning of the program, as well as allow for incorrect or correct input to actually work after the first try.I am a beginner so the more simple, the better at this point. Thank you.
First of all I would change the bind to return to the root window instead of the entry (otherwise you have to click on the entry field for the return to have an effect)Next you need 3 state variables for your class. Then by checking the state of each you can accomplish (what I think) you want Here’s the whole code modified
Not an expert myself but fiddled with TKinter some time ago. From what I know the only way to restart a TKinter app is by running it in a thread and then killing and restarting that thread. I would recommend you to take a look at Python's multiprocessing or threading module. Something you could also try (which worked for me in that past, but isn't really the correct way of doing this I suppose) is to have ROOT = Tk()as a global variable, then having your submit-button as a stand-alone class and have it import global ROOT before executing ROOT.Destroy() and then have it call the application class again, which can also call the global variable (which would cause it to start again). It's a method I've used to have the TKinter window update while I was using it. But the threading method is often mentioned as the proper way of doing this as far as I know..As a very limited example (short on time for a more extensive one), I did something like this in my old script:With regard to setting a maximum number of login attempts. I solved this by creating a separate startup script. It works correctly but I dare not to post it here as it is a real ugly and incorrect way of solving the problem that also comes with a security issue (of having to store your sudo password within a variable). Sorry for not being able to be of more help.  


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/threading.html
