Natural Text
I am making a calculator program in my Python, following a tutorial. Here is my code:It is very basic, it gets up to the point of printing all the option numbers and then asks me to pick one. So I enter "1" as a string, parsing it to an integer 1. However it doesn't go straight to option 1 and instead loops again which is fine I will sort that out later. But again it doesn't go to any option when I enter 1-5. I think I typed in the wrong code to parse it or something?
Result of input function is a , you need to convert it to , using  type . Your misconception might come from that python is a dynamically typed language. But remember that despite variables themselves are untyped, variable values have types.
Your code should look more like this:Salient points:You aren't doing anything with . So I got rid of it, and put a call to  that stores its result in , which is the standard name for a variable whose value you don't care about. You must explicitly convert  to an . Python will not implicitly convert for you, and so . You cannot convert to an  in-place - writing  does nothing. You must write  or similar. You cannot convert multiple strings to an  in a single statement of the form . What you're actually doing here is calling , where you convert  into an , interpreted as being in base .I refactored your  statements to be more conciseVariable names are typically lowercase in Python. You cannot assign to a variable inside a print statement. 
that code posted contains several errors, below is the corrected code:
 converts the input to a string, so if you need to read an , you have to cast it.In the  condition, you could cast the  result (a string) to :then create a variable, let's say  and assign it the sum of the numbers:and finally print the resultThe final code should look like this:Notes:You could use an  as the structure, so if , the following conditions won't be checked. I would also recommend you to follow Python naming convention. Your variable  should be called  and so on.
I corrected your code.Notes: Triple quote syntax is good for long multiline strings.The pythonic way of formatting a printed string is the str.format method.Good luck learning! 


Answer URL
