Natural Text
I am new to python programming and I am learning python by doing simple programs. Here is what I would like to do: if I have a text file containing numbers:say this a f1.txtI want to get first column in a1, second in a2 and so on. I know above code may be wrong, please tell me where I went wrong and how to correct it. Especially I am not understanding command 'ln.strip().split()'. Can someone help?
You could do it like this:So first of all, we use the  statement to open the file. This makes sure that the file is automatically closed even when errors appear. It’s just nicer that way. While the file is open  will be the file handle.Now, Python allows us to iterate over the lines of a file simply by iterating over the file handle. So  will iterate over all lines automatically. There is no need to call  first, and certainly no need to do  which essentially only creates a copy of the list—you could just iterate over  too.Now inside of the loop, we take the line, and split it by whitespace—without arguments  will always do that.  returns a list, so we store that in an extra variable. Next we append each column to the correct list. And as you want the values as numbers, we convert them to integers.The  you mentioned basically takes off any leading or trailing whitespace of the string. As we are using  without arguments, extra whitespace will be removed too, so we don’t really need that.Finally, having four separate lists stored in separate variables is a bit annoying to maintain. You could simply create a list of lists instead:And then, inside of the loop, you can just append  to :When iterating over , you will not only get the value (which you would get when iterating just over the list), but also the index. So using this, we get the index of each element within the splitted line and can automatically append it to the correct sublist of .
or EDIT:To answer the comment  - code below will rearrange the data as required list of numbers
, etc. should give you the first, second, etc. entry in each line.The  function will split the given line at whitespace and returns a list of the entries.
Your indentation is wrong in the  loop. All the code that you want included in the loop should be indented 4 spaces.The line  won't do anything. The syntax  would set  equal to the result of a function  or to a new instance of a class . If you want to add line to the list  you need to use 


Answer URL
