Natural Text
Brand new Python, just getting things set up and installed before I start messing around with things. My understanding is that there are some notable differences/incompatibilities between Python 2.7 and Python 3.3, though both versions are well used, so I thought it best to install both (In their own install directories).When installing, I used the new 3.3 feature where the installer set the PATH variables for me, however this option is not present for 2.7. After installing both versions, I tried a quick test, opened command prompt, and typed  to bring up an interactive session, and as I hoped, it brought up python 3.3. I am also aware of the shorter  command. However when I try  in command prompt, it brings up python 2.7. I can use  to bring up 3.3, but that makes it longer than it needs to be, and seeing as I will be dealing primarily with version 3.3, I would like  and  to both bring up a Python 3.3 interactive session.I am somewhat familiar with Window's PATH system, but I can't see why this is happening. How can I set it up so that both  and , when typed into a windows command prompt, will start a Python 3.3 interactive session unless otherwise specified, e.g. via something like ?Thanks.
 is the Windows Python launcher, and it can start any Python version.On most systems  is configured to launch Python 2.7 by default if present (this is the default except for Python 3.6 and newer, where Python 3 will be run instead). You have two options if you want to change that:Set an environment variable;  will make  run the latest Python 3 interpreter instead. Create a file  in your application directory with the contents:This has the same effect as the  environment variable. Typically, your application directory is found in  or , depending on the Windows version.You can also add a  shebang line to your scripts (first line) to tell the launcher to use Python 3 when you doubleclick such a file: can also be configured to use specific Python versions when you have multiple Python 3 interpreters installed. 
"py" is the python launcher, you could choose which version to launch by adding params  or , see the help notes below:e.g., on my machine,  starts python 2 by default, adding  makes it start python 3:


Answer URL
