Natural Text
I want to send an image file from server side to client side. I am using flask framework.But the problem is whenever I call the route in which  is, the response return is an File. When I click this file  opens it with nothing in that file. That means it must be text file written.I referred the flask docs for .Here is what I am doing in the code:Whenever I load  a file is downloaded but not the image file that I want to download.Error I am getting in my terminal is .What must be the problem. Is anything missing in this above snippet?
 is a  object, not string nor bytes: sends a file.So first at all you need use  to get the content of the object, it'll return bytes object (and by the way,  return string object.Always use  if you're downloading an image, video, or other non-text things).Please check the document for more details.Then, because  send a file, so you need write the image into a file before you send it.But since you don't need use this image on your server anyway, I'd suggest use  in this case, then you don't need delete that image after you sent it. And note that use  if you're sending a text file.For example:However, if you want write the image into a file and send it then, sure you can also do it. We can use  to create a tempfile instead of just create a file to avoid rewrite your important files. From the document:This function operates exactly as  does, except that the file is guaranteed to have a visible name in the file system (on Unix, the directory entry is not unlinked). That name can be retrieved from the  attribute of the file object. Whether the name can be used to open the file a second time, while the named temporary file is still open, varies across platforms (it can be so used on Unix; it cannot on Windows NT or later). If delete is true (the default), the file is deleted as soon as it is closed.The returned object is always a file-like object whose  attribute is the underlying true file object. This file-like object can be used in a  statement, just like a normal file. For example:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/io.html#io.BytesIO
https://docs.python.org/3/library/io.html#io.StringIO
https://docs.python.org/3/library/tempfile.html#tempfile.NamedTemporaryFile
