Natural Text
Is it okay to use the yield statement in an instance method of a class?  For example,Python doesn't complain about this, and simple cases seem to work.  However, I've only seen examples with yield from regular functions.I start having problems when I try to use it with itertools functions.  For example, suppose I have two large data streams X and Y that are stored across multiple files, and I want to compute their sum and difference with only one loop through the data.  I could use  and  like in the following diagramIn code it would be something like this (sorry, it's long)But this fails unless I swap  out for  even though the iterators have the same length.  It's the last  that gets hit, with output likeEdit: I guess it's not obvious from the example I wrote, but the input data X and Y are only available in blocks (in my real problem they're chunked in files).  This is important because I need to maintain state between blocks.  In the toy example above, this means  needs to yield the equivalent ofNOT the equivalent ofI could use  to join the blocks ahead of time and then make one call to , but I'd like to understand what's wrong with maintaining state in the  class between calls (my real app is image processing involving more saved state, not simple Nth/add/subtract).I don't understand how my  instances end up in different states when their lengths are the same.  For example, if I give  two strings of equal lengthI get a result of the same length; how come my  generators seem to be getting unequal numbers of  calls even though each one yields the same number of results?
 Gist repo with revisions  |  Quick link to solution Quick answerYou never reset  and  in . Also, you should have used something like this:but since you don't even need , you should use this:Long answerYour code had an off-by-one smell that led me to this line in NthSumDiff.itervalues():If you swap  and , you'll see that  will always be the one with  greater by one. This is because  pulls from  before pulling from .  raises a StopIteration exception before  is even tried in the last iteration.For example, say you pick N samples where N % step == 7. At the end of each iteration,  for the Nth instances should equal 0. But on the very last iteration,  in  will increment up to 7 and then there will be no more elements in . It will raise StopIteration.  is still sitting at  equal to 0, though.If you add  and  to the beginning of Nth.itervalues(), the problem goes away.LessonYou only had this problem because your code is too complicated and not Pythonic. If you find yourself using lots of counters and indexes in loops, that's a good sign (in Python) to take a step back and see if you can simplify your code. I have a long history of C programming, and consequently, I still catch myself doing the same thing from time to time in Python. Simpler implementationPutting my money where my mouth is...More explanation of the problemIn response to Brian's comment:This doesn't do the same thing. Not resetting i and nout is  intentional. I've basically got a continuous data stream X that's  split across several files. Slicing the blocks gives a different  result than slicing the concatenated stream (I commented earlier about  possibly using itertools.chain). Also my actual program is more  complicated than mere slicing; it's just a working example. I don't  understand the explanation about the order of StopIteration. If  izip('ABCD','abcd') --> Aa Bb Cc Dd then it seems like equal-length  generators should get an equal number of next calls, no? – Brian  Hawkins 6 hours agoYour problem was so long that I missed the part about the stream coming from multiple files. Let's just look at the code itself. First, we need to be really clear about how  actually works.In  above, for every  call, it internally increments  by  and then yields OR it increments  by the number of objects remaining in  and then exits the for loop and then exits the generator (itervalues() is a generator because it yields). When the itervalues() generator exits, Python raises a StopIteration exception.So, for every instance of  initialized with N, the value of  after exhausting all elements in  will be:Now when you iterate over , it will do something like this:So, imagine  and . On the very last  call to ,both A and B have  as their state.  is called, increments , runs out of elements in X, exits the for loop, returns, and then Python raises . Now, inside  we go directly to the exception block skipping  entirely. So,  and  at the end.Second try at simplification (with correct requirements)Here's another simplified version that treats all file data as one continuous stream. It uses chained, small, re-usable generators. I would highly, highly recommend watching this PyCon '14 talk about generators by David Beazley. Guessing from your problem description, it should be 100% applicable.
Condensing the discussion, there's nothing wrong with using  in an instance method per se.  You get into trouble with  if the instance state changes after the last  because  stops calling  on its arguments once any of them stops yielding results.  A clearer example might bewhich hits the last assertion,In the original question, the  class can consume input data after its last , so the sum and difference streams can get out of sync with .  Using  would work since it will try to exhaust each iterator.  A clearer solution might be to refactor to avoid changing state after the last yield.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html#itertools.islice
