Natural Text
So I am creating a range of numbers and I want to run the list of numbers through a function so I can get multiple out puts.This is the basic idea. But I cant figure out how to run individual elements of the list, one at a time, so I can 5 outputs (for this example).
You can use  to apply a function on each element of a list:If using Python 3 you will need to convert the returned value from  to a list:
That's what the map function does:Apply function to every item of iterable and return a list of the results. If additional iterable arguments are passed, function must take that many arguments and is applied to the items from all iterables in parallel. If one iterable is shorter than another it is assumed to be extended with None items. If function is None, the identity function is assumed; if there are multiple arguments, map() returns a list consisting of tuples containing the corresponding items from all iterables (a kind of transpose operation). The iterable arguments may be a sequence or any iterable object; the result is always a list.You can find it or a variation of it in basically every programming language.Alternatively, you could use a list comprehension:
Usually, the preferred way to perform a one-to-one transformation from one list to another list is using a list comprehension.It also works for arbitrary lists, not just consecutive ranges.However, in some circumstances, using  could be more advantageous.I'd go with the list comprehension in your particular case, because it doesn't seem like you need to define a function for such a simple expression.
You can perform it within your  function, this way:
Thanks for the help. Here is the entire file for anybody who is interested. It isn't nearly close to complete, but I needed this part done pretty soon. I checked the answer I used since I am on a dead line to get this in to my professor, but I will definitely look at all the options you guys provided.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#map
