Natural Text
I'm trying to make the function dice randomly roll from 1-6. But when I try to add the different numbers from the function, it says that one and two are undefined. I'm not sure to how solve this, and I'm pretty new at coding.
You probably want one and two to represent the values returned by the dice roll:I changed the variable names and function names to what I think is a better representation of what they are and do.
When you write name = random.randint(1, 6), that doesn't look at the current value of name and then create a new variable named whatever that value is; it just reassigns the variable name.And, even if it did create a new variable, it would be a local variable, unusable outside the function.What you really want to do here is not take a parameter at all:As a side note, you really don't need that float there. The numbers are already ints, and all you're doing with them is adding them and comparing to a string. You don't want the user to have to guess 7.0 (or, worse, 7.0000000000000000001), you want them to guess 7, right? So just use int.Meanwhile, you do need to convert the user's input to a number. raw_input just returns a string. and the string '7' is not equal to the number 7 (whether it's an int or a float). So:If you actually did want to create a new global variable inside the function, that's possible. But it's almost always a very bad idea. To create a new global variable dynamically, you have to use the globals function to get the global namespace as a dict, then work on that dict. Like this:But, again, this is almost always a very bad idea. Creating global variables from within a function is already a fishy thing to do. And good reasons for creating variables by name dynamically are even rarer. After all, you're not going to access the variable as globals()['one'], but as one, so you almost certainly want to create the variable not as globals()['one'], but as one. As in the example at the top of this answer.
dicesum = float(one) + float(two) should result in an error, since you have no variables called one, two. What you do have is dice('one'),dice('two').If you assign the results into variables one, two = dice('one'),dice('two') that would solve that. However, your dice function does not return a value, so that needs fixing too.One last thing, if dicesum == message: will never be True since message is a str while dicesum is a float. Fix by casting message to a float


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#globals
