Natural Text
When I do input the time, like when I put t = time(0,0,90).How do I get the code to return 0:1:30?How would I do the below also too?Add a method called increment. This should add one second to the current time. Make sure that you check all the boundary conditions. When the time is 23:59:59 is incremented, it should roll over to 00:00:00.
I recommend you make a method to add an hour min and sec and the increment method just calls the add sec method. In the methods they handle when they reach their respective limits.You can run this code yourself here
I'd go a totally different route. Presenting it here in case it helps you.This is, imo, the simplest and most straightforward way to do it. If you've got multiple values that have to stay in sync, my advice is not to store them separately: just store them together in the underlying system, and separate them out when the user wants them.
When I do input the time, like when I put t = time(0,0,90). How do I get the code to return 0:1:30?This can be done by simply moving the seconds up to minutes and minutes up to hours, scaling as necessary. Start with:and the code to do it is a relatively simple:Note that's not the most efficient way to do it, especially if the value can be high. If that's a possibility, you're better off with something like:Add a method called increment. This should add one second to the current time. Make sure that you check all the boundary conditions. When the time is 23:59:59 is incremented, it should roll over to 00:00:00.Following a similar pattern (and assuming you've already fixed it to ensure values are properly clamped), this is also relatively easy.Note that I haven't integrated that into your specific code, I'm more treating Python as a pseudo-code language (at which it excels). That's because it's classwork and you'll learn a lot more by doing it yourself (once you know how, of course).You should take the algorithms I've provided and adapt them for your own code.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/time.html
