Natural Text
I've been trying to get my application to mail some outputted text to an email. For simplification I have isolated the script :This script outputs :So as you can see, the connection is being refused. I'm running Python 2.6 on Mac OS X Snow Leopard (if that's relevant).I have tried searching around a lot, but haven't been able to find a solution. Any help will be appreciated.
My guess is that you do not have any SMTP server installed on your local machine.If your emails are not sensitive, open a Gmail account and send your emails using it with Python.
If you start a local server as follows:python -m smtpd -n -c DebuggingServer localhost:1025Make sure to modify the mail-sending code to use the non-standard port number:
Start a simple SMTP server with Python like so:
If you don't want to run a separate server, and if you're only using Unix, you can use this technique, copied from http://www.yak.net/fqa/84.html, and originally from the Python FAQ:On Unix, it's very simple, using sendmail. The location of the sendmail program varies between systems; sometimes it is /usr/lib/sendmail, sometime /usr/sbin/sendmail. The sendmail manual page will help you out. Here's some sample code:
I wanted to create something so that you could just copy paste it and have it work but this is the closest I got:I feel the tutorial is misleading because it assumes without telling you very well that you already have a running server that sends e-mails for you...its odd. The only issue with my script is that I dont know how to make it work without having the cleartext password just written there but alas...at least it sends it? Just make a fake e-mail address or something...
If you are root on your system then you may want to install opensmtpd. First this way you don't need to run the server manually (this service is enabled by default so after smtpd installation either start it manually or reboot your machine). Second, you don't need to change the line server = smtplib.SMTP(SERVER). To conclude, use yum install opensmtpd or the equivalent apt-get command.
For whatever reason, I had difficulty passing server and port to the constructor, but not the connect function. This ended up working for me:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/email.examples.html
