Natural Text
I'm trying to get my feet wet with pickle, so I write a little sample code like this:So the goal of this app is once I hit the plusbutton, there will be an increasing number on the screen. And if I save it, close the window, reopen it, and hit the load button, I will see the last time the number I increased to. I'm very new to pickle, and the current code gives this back to me:I wonder what the problem is here. Also, I see a lot of tutorials or sample code online that does things like:What does  mean?
Your problem can be simplified to a small class that doesn't use tkinter at all:You are pickling the  instance method, not the full state of the  class. Python lets you do that, assuming that you also implement a  method that knows how to rebuild an object from that information. From the docs:Upon unpickling, if the class defines __setstate__(), it is called with the unpickled state. In that case, there is no requirement for the state object to be a dictionary. Otherwise, the pickled state must be a dictionary and its items are assigned to the new instance’s dictionary.When you unpickle, pickle creates a new instance of  but since the class has no  method, pickle tries to restore the object's . That fails because the unpickled object is an instance method, not a . And this shows a bigger problem with your approach. recreates entire objects, it doesn't restore into existing objects. In your case, if you pickled the entire  object, it would restore a second  object in addition to the one you created yourself. You could assign that object's  to your , but that is a very risky proposition. You would loose the entire state of your Frame object in favor of what happened to be in the object you pickled. Its likely impossible to pickle the entire object anyway because tkinter is a C extension module.Instead, you should separate the data you want to save and restore from the tkinter object you happen to use to interact with the user. This is a common programming rule: separate data from presentation. Here, I have a class holding data and I can save and restore it separate from the tkinter class. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html#object.__setstate__
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#the-with-statement
