Natural Text
I have 4 lists:"criticallist" `"master" and then each function has separate lists of md5's - [Ex. 49f12a7b358c7f7cba005610210418aa]"md5-ThreatExpert" and "md5-HybridAnalysis", both of inside their respective functions that I rename to "md5threat".and then in each function I'm trying to compare "criticallist" and "master" against "md5threat".Anything from "md5threat" that is NOT in either "criticallist" or "master" is added to "md5broinput".AND if it's added to "md5broinput" it's also appended back to "master"."md5broinput" is new every single day and I'll wipe "master" every week.  
Try this as refactor of your code. The code is using  as context when  is more pythonic.  Added @nbryans answer.. https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#list-comprehensions
If I understand the question correctly, you wantAs it's written now, you're saying it "is in bromaster" after you check that , where  is master.
So the code says when md5 NOT in y, so it hit this if but not the else which appends.Current code:I think the code should say:
I would suggest to clean up the code to not get lost in the many levels of info you want to compare with each other. One way is to not name the content from say criticallist into x (when retrieved as list) wait a second ...What about this:And then as @nbryans already spotted change:to:I would prefer @merlins answer. If you want to further use the context managers and at the same time build full lists, then why not first load from files, leave the blocks one after the other, and than perform the analyitic matching loops - to have a serial collection phase and a focused combination algortihm with only the lists.
Thanks @Merlin for you help its much appreciated and I'm reworking it with comprehension.  I gave you points where Icould just for that!If you look at where I made my mistake I was checking the list y and then appending to it at the end within the loop so it was like an neverending loop -I replaced - with - I appreciate it guys I do hope at some point I'm on here helping rookie!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#list-comprehensions
