Natural Text
Write a program that asks the user for a color, a line width, a line length and a shape. The shape should be either a line, a triangle, or a square. Use turtle graphics to draw the shape that the user requests of the size, color, line width and line length that the user requests. For example, if these are the user choices for color, width, line length  and shapewhat color? bluewhat line width? 25what line length? 100line, triangle or square? triangleThis is my attempt:I receive this error:Can someone please explain why the length in the forward commands won't go through?
The first problem I see is that you've left an 'r' out of forward.should beAlso, if you use   and  will be strings, but they need to be typecast.  Specifically, length needs to be an integer or float and width must be a positive integer.The code I have here will use a loop to get the proper input from the user.  It will try to reject bad inputs.  For example, if the user types 'pumpkin' when you are asking for the length.Similarly, the way I am catching problems with the length and width entries, you'll want to catch problems with user entry for the shape and color.  Make sure the user enters a valid color.  Make sure the shape is in the list of allowable shapes.The last problem is that your code here is not indented properly.  You need to indent after the  and  clauses.Here is the whole program working:Note that I also fixed the triangles...
Mixing command line input with turtle graphics seems a bad idea if the values you want can be obtained using the graphic input methods that the turtle module provides:These are designed to prevent some of the errors that command line code needs to trap.  Here's your program rewritten with graphic input methods:
your else conditional has a grammatical error :  instead of 
You are using Python 3.x, and  there returns a string, not a float.You need to cast the result before using it as a number:The problem is that somewhere inside  class,  is multiplied by a floating-point number. If  itself would be a number, everything would be ok. But in your case,  is a string, so Python has to perform . Now,  is treated as a sequence of characters. In Python, it is valid to multiply a sequence by integer ( = ), but not by other types (in particular, by float). That's why you get this error message about multiplying sequence by non-int type.



Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/turtle.html#turtle.forward
https://docs.python.org/3/library/turtle.html#turtle.forward
