Natural Text
I am having trouble using json.loads to convert to a dict object and I can't figure out what I'm doing wrong.The exact error I get running this is Here is my code:I'm pretty sure that the error is occuring at the 2nd to last line but I do not know what to do to fix it. Any advice would be appreciated.
 will load a json string into a python ,  will dump a python  to a json string, for example:So that line is incorrect since you are trying to  a python , and  is expecting a valid  which should have . So if you are trying to load the json, you should change what you are loading to look like the  above, or you should be dumping it. This is just my best guess from the given information. What is it that you are trying to accomplish?Also you don't need to specify the  before your strings, as @Cld  mentioned in the comments.
I encountered another problem that returns the same error.Single quote issueI used a json string with single quotes : But  accepts only double quotes for json properties : Final comma issue doesn't accept a final comma:Solution:  to solve single quote and final comma issuesYou can use  (part of standard library for both Python 2 and 3) for this processing. Here is an example :Using  will prevent you from single quote and final comma issues by interpet the JSON like Python dictionnary (so you must follow the Python dictionnary syntax). It's a pretty good and safely alternative of  function for literal structures.Python documentation warned us of using large/complex string : Warning It is possible to crash the Python interpreter with a  sufficiently large/complex string due to stack depth limitations in  Python’s AST compiler.json.dumps with single quotesTo use  with single quotes easily you can use this code: documentationast Python 3 docast Python 2 docI hope it helps.
replace all single quotes with double quotesreplace 'u"' from your strings to '"' ... so basically convert internal unicodes to strings before loading the string into json
All other answers may answer your query, but I faced same issue which was due to stray  which I added at the end of my json string like this:I finally got it working when I removed extra  like this:Hope this help! cheers.
used ast,example


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/ast.html#ast.literal_eval
https://docs.python.org/3/library/ast.html
