Natural Text
I am making a GUI with tkinter that allows me to click a button that will run a port scan. I have a script for a port scan that functions correctly, I have managed to open the port scanner through the button on the GUI but then I receive an error that I otherwise don't receive when running the port scanner alone. My code:THIS IS THE CODE FOLLOWING FOR THE LINE 51 ERROR
The problem is with your  statement. You're opening your other  file named  and then calling .This just isn't going to work.Why this doesn't work:When you do  exec is of course executing this code, but the problem is that the global variables in this file aren't within the scope. So, to make this work (which I don't recommend) you'd have to use:From the documentationIf the globals dictionary does not contain a value for the key builtins, a reference to the dictionary of the built-in module builtins is inserted under that key. That way you can control what builtins are available to the executed code by inserting your own builtins dictionary into globals before passing it to exec().If you really want to call your file this way then you should just use .Alternative approach:You really don't need to call your file this way. You now have two instances of  running. If you need another window then a widget is provided for this purpose. It is the  widget. You can restructure your code to create a  instance containing the port scanner app on your button click. An example being, create your port scanner app with the Toplevel widget (in your other file if you wish) then import the "app" into your file and on the button click have it initialize the app.Additional Notes:You're calling a  loop and if this runs (for any noticeable amount of time) then this is going to block the GUI's main event loop and causing your GUI to "hang". Your first guess should not be that a part of the widely tested and used python standard library is flawed. The problem is (99.9% of the time)


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#exec
