Natural Text
Some time ago, I installed dynet for Python and it worked fine. I installed it automatically with .Then, I wanted to add MKL support. So I installed dynet again manually,  using the instructions here: http://dynet.readthedocs.io/en/latest/python.html#manual-installation, passing a  parameter to cmake.I want to make sure that I did everything correctly and that Python indeed takes the new installation of dynet. How can I check this?In general, when I have a library that is built in C++ and linked from Python, how can I check, from within Python, the details of the installed library, and particularly, what binary file does Python link to?
This is tricky. There is no standard way, you have to rely on information provided by the package (which many don't do) and on implementation details for the specific library.Python libraries often expose their version number in a  attribute. This attribute is not standardised, it is at most a convention. The  library does have this attribute but it doesn't list the patch-level version, only the major and minor versions:Because you installed the library either directly from the version control system (with ) or manually from source, you can't use  or  to inspect the version either:Compilation flags are not stored anywhere, normally. Python exposes it's own compilation-time info in structures in the  module and the  module, but there is no such facility for extension modules. Unless the extension module explicitly includes such info in the API, you are out of luck there.At best, you can try to locate the actual dynamic module loaded. Many projects use a wrapper Python module, which indirectly loads the actual extension module, confusing matters. In this case, importing  gives you the  file:This file was generated from the  file in the project source code. It imports the dynamic module as :So you can still at least find the location of the dynamic object loaded with:You can further check what that dynamic library links to if you want to check they are the right versions; how you do this is platform dependent:On most UNIX system's you'd use , see How to show all shared libraries used by executables in Linux?On OS X, use  instead, see What is the clang analogue of ldd?On Windows, you need a third-party tool like dependency walker or the VS  tool, see How to check for DLL dependency?
3 ways from this source:Or by using Or by using 
Not very clear with your question.But you can see all installed libraries by running the below command.It will list all the libraries installed in your environment along with its version number.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sysconfig.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sysconfig.html
