Natural Text
when i run my program (web crawler) in parallel it takes unusual amount of ram or memory through my system, i also tested with other web crawlers and my web crawler is taking twice as much as ram as they do , so my question is                how can i manually manage memory or ram in python, (if possible) ?here is my code:-
Your code is very memory inefficient because you're doing a lot of slicing - and because strings are immutable, each slice allocates a new object.So for example:Allocates a new string, copies  from  to  unto it, compares it to , and throws it away; furthermore, if it tested equal, it allocates a new string, copies  from  on unto it, and throws  away. And if  is long, or if this happens a lot, this can become quite a problem.Check out s - it's a way to slice strings (well,  in Python 3) without copying them.There are a lot of other ways you can optimize your code:Instead of re-defining  for every link, define it once before the loop.Instead of , use .Instead of first 4  comparisons, use a regular expression like .And if you're doing that, instead of concatenating  and  for for every link, do it once before the loop, and even  the regular expression there.
You can't manage memory directly in Python in the sense that you can't allocate and /or free memory chunks otherwise than creating and deleting objects. What you can do is use tools to understand which pieces of your code use how much memory. For details, see, for example, https://www.pluralsight.com/blog/tutorials/how-to-profile-memory-usage-in-pythonIn python, the way to limiting memory usage then is obviously don't create large lists of objects, or other data structures. Use callbacks, yields, and /or other coding practices to limit the amount of time your structures spend in memory. Also  I would recommend to submit your code to code review SE, I think they might be able to help as well. 
The short answer is, you can't manually manage memory. However, your question really should be, how do I reduce the amount of memory Python uses?First, know that there is a difference between the amount of memory your program allocates vs how much it uses.Second, avoid allocating memory you don't need to. Each slice operation creates a new  object. Instead, use the  method:etc.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#memoryview
