Natural Text
I want all the tags in a text that look like  or  to be replaced with  and  respectively. So basically, depending on the Type whether  or , I want to replace the text accordingly in a text string using Python3 and regex.I tried doing the following in python but not sure if that's the right approach to go forward:With the above, I am trying to do a regex of the tag and every tag I find, I pass that to a function called  to split the text between the tag and determine if it is a  or a  and compute the stuff and return the replacement tag dynamically. I am not even sure if this is even possible using the  but any leads would help. Thank you.Examples: becomes  becomes 
This is perfectly possible with , and you're on the right track with using a replacement function (which is designed to allow dynamic replacements). See below for an example that works with the examples you give - probably have to modify to suit your use case depending on what other data is present in the text (ie. other tags you need to ignore)Warning: if this text is actually full html, regex matching will not be reliable - use an html processor like beautifulsoup. ;)
Probably an extension to @swalladge's answer but here we use the advantage of a dictionary, if we know a mapping. (Think replace dictionary with a custom mapping function.OUTPUTWorking example here.regexWe capture what we need in 3 groups and refer to them through match object.Highlighted in bold are the three groups that we captured in the regex.We use these 3 groups in our  function to return the right string.
Sorry this isn't a complete answer but I'm falling asleep at the computer, but this is the regex that'll match either of the strings you provided, . Check out https://pythex.org/ for testing your regex stuff.
Try with:
This code will work if you have it in the form :I know it does not use regex and it has to split the text some other way, but this is the main bulk.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#match-objects
