Natural Text
I have a text file I am reading in from, and I create two variables called  and .  is a variable that I want to reuse, it is defined in a loop. This is my code: The way I get peakAvg is by reading in from a text file, grabbing certain values (which is what  is). From those values, I group them by name (which is what  is). However,  is generated by taking all the ppm values (which are numbers) and taking their average by their group ()The variable  looks like this (i.e.: if i printed the values of  it would look like this):  (This is just a snippet but the last number is the actual last number in the list)In the loop above, I call my function I want to use my variable, , for another function I created called . This is what my second loop (where I call ) looks like: Now if I print out what  is, I just get a list of one number (this is just a snippet but the whole list is just this number):How can I get my  variable to be what it was before (i.e.: the first list of numbers I had) because now when I call my function  I get inaccurate results. Edit: These are the functions I am using:
In your code,  isn't a list, it's a single value that gets changed each time through the loop. The way to do this is something like the following:That is, first initialise  to an empty list, and then, each time through the list,  the new value of  to the list. This way,  contains the whole list of things that you want, which you can  if you want.If you want do something further with the list, you can do another loop:But you need to figure out what the ultimate output/goal of this code should be. Do you want a list of all the  quantities that you are calculating? Or do you somehow need to collect them into a single number? The answers here depend on what you're actually trying to do, which is separate from the Python syntax...Also, given that you are interested in doing the same operation on all the elements of various lists, you should learn about numpy. (More generally, you probably need to learn about lists and looping in Python, which are pretty basic concepts, so you might want to start with something like the official Python tutorial.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/
