Natural Text
i have a programm that generate the list and then i ask them to tell me what they want to do from the menu and this is where my problem start i was able to get the input form the user to different function but when i try to use the if else condition it doesn't check, below are my code from the bottom function i can get list and i can get the user input and i can get the data and move it in second function but it wont work after that.thank you
I think your problem is simple, and has nothing to do with how you're passing values between functions.In main, you're reading a value from the user like this:The input function:… reads a line from input, converts it to a string (stripping a trailing newline), and returns that.So, if the user types 1 at the prompt, you get back the string "1".Now, you pass that value—perfectly correctly—to menu.In menu, you then try to compare it to various numbers, like this:But this will never be true. A string, like "1", is never equal to a number, like 1. They're not even the same kind of value, much less the same value.So, you need to do one of two things:Convert the input to an number. For example, change menu(x,l) to menu(int(x), l). OR…Write menu to expect strings. For example, change if x == 1: to if x == "1":.You may be wondering why that print (x) didn't help you debug the problem.print(x) prints out the end-user-friendly string representation of whatever you give it. That is, it automatically calls the str function for you. For debugging purposes, you often want to use repr instead of str, to get the programmer-friendly string representation instead of the end-user-friendly string representation.For example, print(str("10")) will print out 10—just like print(str(10)), so you can't tell them apart. But print(repr("10")) will print out '10', unlike print(repr(10)), while prints 10, so you can tell them apart. repr can also help you spot things like strings with invisible characters in them, having special "node" objects from a parser instead of just strings, etc.


Answer URL
