Natural Text
I am building off of a simple Pythagorean Theorem calculator I wrote a while back to make a more advanced version as an introduction to classes and functions. I've successfully programmed it to solve for c, either a or b and to loop back the calculation function if the user needs to do another calculation.I've recently tried to add a main menu function, so if the user needed to solve for c, and now needs to solve for b, he/she can go back to the main menu to select the option they need. With some difficulty, I've managed to code it to where it willGo back to the main menuThe user selects another optionThe user performs the calculation as needed1-3 repeats successfully But then if they try to go back and select another option, it just returns to the python prompt. It's very hard for me to describe this problem in words, as other things go wrong as well. Such as, if you preform less than 2 calculations and try to go back, the method you're currently on keeps looping. I have no idea why any of this is happening, and it seems I'm doing everything right. I've tried troubleshooting, but as said above, my particular situation is hard to describe. I'm convinced that I haven't done it right, and I would like to know how. My code and screenshots are attached below. CodeScreenshotIt doesn't loop againP.S This is my first question EVER on a help board for anything, so go easy on me if I haven't done something right.
You don’t need the query statements at the end. Include the calls to your methods in the methods or create a new one for the purpose of returning to the main menu. I would also suggest using float() instead of int() when dealing with possible decimals, but I did not change this. There were more things you could do to clean this up. I put everything in the class and called everything as self.something(). I added .lower() for your responses in case a user does OPT1 or Opt1. I created a single rerun function to call after each operation. It automatically goes to this after the first run. I also used try/except for your inputs because you will get a ValueError by entering a non-numeric character when calling int(). Instead, it now will tell the user to enter a number and will try again. For quit, you need to call it as quit().The init loads as soon as you call the class, which allows you to do things to initiate it, such as including your imports, setting variables, printing messages, and running functions. This way it is all inclusive. Finally, it is standard practice to begin you class name with a capital letter (though not a requirement).Hope this helps you get a better idea of how to use classes. EDIT:If you want to build a custom import for your tool to use without direct user interaction, you can build it like this:Then you can import it into another script. If your pythag script is named pythag.py, you would import it as Then call the modules like this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/constants.html#quit
