Natural Text
I occasionally find myself appending numbers to the end of each variable when I have a couple of arguments, but I don't do it consistently and I would like to establish just one pattern going forward.Let's say I have a function which takes in two numbers and the name of a mathematical operation and then it returns the result of that operation.Edit: please don't get hung up on this example. My question applies to variable names, not just functions, and not just operandsI generally end up with something like this input1 and input2 style, but it feels odd since Python uses zero-based indexing. But input0 and input1 also doesn't seem right. Sometimes (like in a Jupyter Notebook) I start with one variable like var (just an example, I'm usually more descriptive) and then later end up adding another one and call it something like var1 or possibly var2. When I'm prototyping things in a Notebook, I don't usually think it's important enough to then go back and add the 0 or 1 to the first variable name, but then I end up with really inconsistent names.Edit 2: Adding a more typical/realistic example, as requested:I've checked all over this site as well as various style guides, including https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#function-and-variable-names and can't seem to find an answer to this question. It's very possible there is no preferred way to do this, but I'd love to hear your suggestions for what makes sense. I know it can depend on the exact scenario, but I'm hoping there's some consistent naming convention I can use to avoid confusion and re-factoring down the line.Other ways I've considered but don't love:var_0, var_1List, tuple, or custom data structure: vars[0] and vars[1](This is obviously preferred when using lots of values, but seems like overkill for 2)first_var, second_varThe style I'm leaning towards:To cover the case where I don't anticipate needing a second variable, it could make sense to start with var and then add a var1 if necessary later. This would be consistent with Python indexing so that the 1 indicates it's the second instance variable. Then in the case where I'm comparing ids, hashes, or other words used in Python, I can compare id0 to id1 or hash0 to hash1.
I would sugest you to name the variables in a way that makes them self-explanatory. It makes the code much more readable for anyone else and reduces the need for comments.For math operations you can just use simple a and b or x and y.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/operator.html
