Natural Text
I noticed something really strange while working with functions. It looks like the variable name 'str' is already defined as a global variable. Take a look:The variable str is defined in the function Example. So why is there no NameError: name 'str' is not defined? When I call the variable x or something else ( In this case 'bar'):Why does a variable with the name 'str' act as a global variable?
In python, str() is the string constructor. It is used to cast an object to a string.You can use it locally, but it will override the access to the function. You will not be able to use str() anymore.for reference:https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html#strclass str(object='')Return a string containing a nicely printable representation of an  object. For strings, this returns the string itself. The difference  with repr(object) is that str(object) does not always attempt to  return a string that is acceptable to eval(); its goal is to return a  printable string. If no argument is given, returns the empty string,  ''.For general knowledge purpose, you can get back you constructor if you delete your variable. For example:
The reason this fails:Is because you're attempting to pass the variable bar to the Example() method, but bar was never defined anywhere prior to the call. I'm not really sure what it is you want to accomplish with this method anyhow, since you pass a variable but don't use it at all.Comment Response:str is not a built-in function (albeit listed on the page), but rather it is the constructor for the built-in type str. To show that you are simply reassigning the method associated with the keyword (not necessarily reserved, but it is a keyword nonetheless), consider the following:Thus you've essentially overwritten the assignment to the str class constructor. I used abs in this example, but the same applies (with a twist) for input:Difference here is you assign a string (of type str) to the keyword str. So you can never use str(10) to get '10' because that would now be like calling hello world(10) which fails.
If you want to use a keyword as a variable name, by convention a single trailing underscore is used to avoid conflicts with Python keywords, like so:Cf. PEP 8 -- Style Guide for Python Codes


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html
