Natural Text
I have a package that I installed from a virtual environment.  If I just launch the python interpreter, that package can be imported just fine.  However, if I launch Idle, that package cannot be imported (since it's only available in one particular virtualenv and not global).  How can I launch Idle from a virtualenv, so that all packages from the virtualenv would be available?  
IDLE is essentially So you can launch it yourself unless you built the virtualenv without default packages.
Short answerStart the virtual environmentRun From this answer.Long answerThis answer assumes Python 3.There are a few different virtual environment managers, each of which has a slightly different way of handling where python is installed and how it's run, as detailed in this answer.This answer assumes the  module is used, and that it was installed following the docs.Note: Some Linux distributions package the venv module into a separate package: Ubuntu and DebianIf the virtual environment was installed in a folder called  by running  from inside the folder , the virtual environment will be inside a new folder created by the module:On Windows, with Python 3.7.1, the files inside the  folder will probably look like this:The virtual environment can be started by running either the  or  script, depending on whether  or PowerShell is used:Note: These scripts don't keep the shell open if run by double-clicking them. Start a shell, then run them by typing the above commands, with the folder names changed for your projectOn most other operating systems, the virtual environment folder will look like this:Then, from any shell other than  or fish, activate the environment by:For  and  there are shell-specific scripts for activating the virtual environment ( and , respectively) and they can be run like the  script.Once the virtual environment has been activated on all operating systems, running the following will start IDLE with access to the packages installed into the virtual environment:
On Windows, a Python script run from command line like this  might be run by other Python interpreter than the one used when using  command (it depends on  files association). If one wants to avoid this problem it's best to create a batch file  with the content  and place it in the  folder in the virtualenv. Also, like others noted idle needs both  and  folders to work. The simplest solution is to create symbolic links from virtualenv to the base Python installation like this
Putting a few answers together and here is how I do this on Window with a fully functional batch file.Make idle.bat in your virtualenv's Scripts directory. It will create (unless they exist) both links to tcl and tk (version 8.5 as of writing) and put them in you virtualenv's Lib directory then it fires up idle. Copy and paste this code exactly into an editor. Change the path names for your current virtualenv and Python install (mine is the standard for 2.7) then save it into Scripts/idle.bat.Run the script with Powershell (RUN AS ADMIN!) to open idle.
@biomed I am on Windows and I was trying this. In my python2.6 folder I had to copy the  python26/tcl/tcl8.5 and python/tcl/tk8.5 folders to python26/Lib and then I created the script above in my virtualenv's scripts folder. Worked great.
Python 3.6 modernized and refactored . This change included the renaming of several methods. Because of this,  must now be accessed with . The following snippet is based on the accepted answer and should work for any Python version:
For me launching something like this just works (Linux terminal):(venv is path to your venv obviously)
I am using Ubuntu 15.04 operating system. I have installed some packages using virtualenv.So, to run the files inside virtualenv including those packages I use the following commands in terminal(Name of my virtual environment is venv):After running the IDLE, you can open file using ctrl+o keyboard shortcut.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html
