Natural Text
I installed Python 2.6 and Python 3 on Windows 7 and set environment variable: . When I run  in cmd, it displays the python version is 2.6, which is right! But when I wrote a script in a bat file and ran it, the displayed python version was 3.1. What is wrong here?    The script code in bat file: 
The last Python you install that registers itself in the environment is the default (I can't remember the exact wording in the installer, but it is the first option).  There are a number of settings so to make sure they are all registered consistently just reinstall the version you want to be the default.If you want to install another version but don't want it as the default just disable the registration option during installation.Edit (May 19, 2012)Starting with Python 3.3, the Python installer installs Python Launcher for Windows.  This program () is associated with the Python file extensions and looks for a "shebang" comment to specify the python version to run.  This allows many versions of Python to co-exist and allows Python scripts to explicitly specify which version to use, if desired.  If it is not specified, the default is to use the latest Python 2.X version for the current architecture (x86 or x64).  This default can be customized through a  file or  environment variable.  See the docs for more details.Just make sure the Python 3.3 is the last Python installed that registered itself with Windows.  If other versions of Python are installed later be sure not to register them with the environment, so the launcher will remain the default.Here's how to check if the launcher is registered correctly from the console:Above,  files are associated with the  type.  The command line for  is the Python Launcher, which is installed in the Windows directory since it is always in the PATH.For the association to work, run scripts from the command line with , not "python script.py", otherwise  will be run instead of .   can also be run with switches to force a Python version:Additionally, add  to the  environment variable and then the command line can just be  with no extension.
Running 'py' command will tell you what version you have running. If you currently running 3.x and you need to switch to 2.x, you will need to use switch '-2'If you need to switch from python 2.x to python 3.x you will have to use '-3' switchIf you would like to have Python 3.x as a default version, then you will need to create environment variable 'PY_PYTHON' and set it's value to 3.
See here for original postThus, on my system I made a  file under  where py.exe exists, with the following contents:Now when you Double-click on a .py file, it will be run by the new default version. Now I'm only using the Shebang  on my old scripts.
Edit registry key Set default program to open  files to 
This is if you have both the versions installed. Go to You will see the . From here navigate to the  Tab -> Click on .You will see a top half for the user variables and the bottom half for . Check the  and double-click on the (to edit the Path).Check for the path of Python(which you wish to run i.e. Python 2.x or 3.x) and move it to the top of the Path list. Restart the Command Prompt, and now when you check the version of Python, it should correctly display the required version.
This worked for me:Go toselectIn the System variables section search for (create if doesn't exist)and setor your desired versionYou need to restart CMD.In case it still doesn't work you might want to leave in the PATH variable only your desired version.
Now that Python 3.3 is released it is easiest to use the py.exe utility described here:http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0397/It allows you to specify a Python version in your script file using a UNIX style directive.  There are also command line and environment variable options for controlling which version of Python is run.The easiest way to get this utility is to install Python 3.3 or later.
Nothing above worked, this is what worked for me: This command should be run in Command prompt launched as administratorWarning: even if the path in this command is set to python35,  if you have python36 installed it's going to set the default to python36. To prevent this, you can temporarily change the folder name from  to , run the command and then remove the change to the Python 36 folder. 
Check which one the system is currently using:Add the main folder location (e.g. C/ProgramFiles) and Scripts location (C/ProgramFiles/Scripts) to Environment Variables of the system. Add both 3.x version and 2.x versionPath location is ranked inside environment variable. If you want to use Python 2.x simply put path of python 2.x first, if you want for Python 3.x simply put 3.x firstThis uses python 2
This work for me.If you want to use the python 3.6 you must move the python3.6 on the top of the list.The same applies to the python2.7If you want to have the 2.7 as default then make sure you move the python2.7 on the very top on the list.step 1step 2step 3then close any cmd command prompt and opened again, it should work as expected.python --version
Use  command in Windows CMD to temporarily set the default python for the current session.
Try modifying the path in the windows registry (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment).Caveat: Don't break the registry :)


Answer URL
