Natural Text
I am using the builtin Python ElementTree module. It is straightforward to access children, but what about parent or sibling nodes? - can this be done efficiently without traversing the entire tree?
There's no direct support in the form of a  attribute, but you can perhaps use the patterns described here to achieve the desired effect. The following one-liner is suggested (from the linked-to post) to create a child-to-parent mapping for a whole tree:
Vinay's answer should still work, but for Python 2.7+ and 3.2+ the following is recommended: is deprecated in favor of , and it's nice to use the new  list comprehension constructor.Secondly, while constructing an XML document, it is possible that a child will have multiple parents, although this gets removed once you serialize the document. If that matters, you might try this:
You can use xpath  notation in ElementTree.
As mentioned in Get parent element after using find method (xml.etree.ElementTree) you would have to do an indirect search for parent.Having xml:Assuming you have created etree element into  variable, you can use:Resulting in:Higher parent would be found as: being 
Another way if just want a single subElement's parent and also known the subElement's xpath.
If you are using lxml, I was able to get the parent element with the following:This will raise a  exception if the element doesn't have ancestors - so be prepared to catch that if you may run into that scenario.
The XPath '..' selector cannot be used to retrieve the parent node on 3.5.3 nor 3.6.1 (at least on OSX),eg in interactive mode:The last answer breaks all hopes...
Pasting here my answer from https://stackoverflow.com/a/54943960/492336:I had a similar problem and I got a bit creative. Turns out nothing prevents us from adding the parentage info ourselves. We can later strip it once we no longer need it.
Look at the 19.7.2.2. section: Supported XPath syntax ...Find node's parent using the path:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html#supported-xpath-syntax
