Natural Text
This is my code. When the user inputs the the name of the room it works but then for some reason it loops and asks the user which room they want to book. How can I fix it so "Enter The Week Your Stay Starts " is asked instead of the room that the user wants to book is inputted?Picture reference https://imgur.com/a/QAtnHT9
The first problem is that you want break, not exit.The break statement breaks out of a loop, which is what you want to do.exit is not a statement. It's the name of a function, which you aren't calling, so it doesn't do anything, any more than just writing sorted would. Also, it isn't intended to be used except in interactive mode; if you need to exit a script in the middle of the script, you use sys.exit(). Also, you don't want to exit the whole script here anyway, just the loop.But you've got another problem beyond that: You have one loop nested inside another one. Breaking out of the first one won't break out of the second one.You need to reorganize your logic in some way that it's easy to get out of this code where you want to, and the cleanest way to do that is usually by writing a function, which you can return from:And now, you can just call that function:While we're at it, you can simplify this code in a number of ways. You can just ask for the input at the top of the loop instead of doing it twice; you don't need to call str on something that's already a string; you can use string formatting instead of manually converting things to strings and concatenating…
While the points raised in @abarnert's answer are valid, you can use a for-else construct like the following instead to avoid using a separate function to break out of a nested loop:
SolutionIt would make your code easier to work with, if you just split what you are trying to do there up a little.  If you make a while loop that checks to make sure the desired_room exists first then you can enter your next loop knowing that desired_room is a valid entry.Also by transforming inputs into title instead of lower you can check with your name quicker since you know all entries are in title case format.ThoughtsThe way you are, you are matching all the indices for each list to get the proper info (name[0], cap[0], peak[0],... give usHetty`'s information).  This is fine but what happens when you have 100 rooms and you entry number 67 is off, its going to be rough going through each list and checking index 67. Instead you could use a list of dictionaries to keep each rooms information together. Just trying to give some ideas, threw in some print formatting ideas as well, Output


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#the-for-statement
