Natural Text
I am having trouble with variables not getting defined the way I want them to in my function. I am getting the error message "global name color1 is not defined" even though I am returning color1 from a function in which I give it a defined value. Here is my code :
Do note that, in this usage, actually picking two cards and comparing does an awful lot of unneeded work; you could get the same result much more directly with
My god! You are still misunderstanding a lot of things young padawan... :)Variable ScopeLet's start with variable scope. Let me explain.When you write the following code,you will get a failure, because a is local to myfunction, that is to say it only exists inside that function, and the last statement refers to a variable that is not known to python. This is a nice feature, because without scope, you have to take a lot of care not to have the same variable name in any part of your program that could get in conflict. If it's boring in a small program, it's mandatory for bigger programs (think of the 10.2M lines of code of firefox).The return keywordThe return keyword doesn't place a variable in the global scope (some limbo where variables are available at any time). Instead, it ends the current function and pass some values to the caller. The first statement ending sharply the function, subsequent return are never reached. Catching a return value is done from the caller like this:Python provides a handy way to return several values from a function in the form of a tuple. One uses it like this:The Zen of Python and all these thingsJust a last topic to say that a good program has simple algorithm and complexity lies in data. Python has a wonderful set of tools specifically designed to express and manipulate complex datasets. Lists, tuples and dictionaries are used to describe complex data, group them and establish relationships. Using them, you will simplify a lot your code, so learn to use them as soon as possible.Some nice reads:Learn Python The Hard WayBasics of the Unix Philosophy especially the Rule of Representation


Answer URL
