Natural Text
I have a list of values that are the result of merging many files. I need to pad some of the values. I know that each sub section begins with the value -1. I am trying to basically extract a sub-array between -1's in the main array via iteration.For example supposed this is the main list:I would like to extract the values between the -1s:I have extracted the indices for each -1 by search through the main list:I also assembled them as pairs using a common recipe:The next step I am trying to do is grab the values between the index pairs, for example:so I can then do some work to those values (I will add a fixed int. to each value in each sub-array).  
You mentioned numpy in the tags.  If you're using it, have a look at np.split.For example:This yields:What's going on is that where will yield an array (actually a tuple of arrays, therefore the where(blah)[0]) of the indicies where the given expression is true.  We can then pass these indicies to split to get a sequence of arrays.  However, the result will contain the -1's and an empty array at the start, if the sequence starts with -1. Therefore, we need to filter these out.If you're not already using numpy, though, your (or @DSM's) itertools solution is probably a better choice.
If you only need the groups themselves and don't care about the indices of the groups (you could always reconstruct them, after all), I'd use itertools.groupby:I missed the numpy tags, though: if you're working with numpy arrays, using np.split/np.where is a better choice.
I would do it something like this, which is a little different from the path you started down:
I think when you build your list, you can directly add the values to a string. So rather than starting with a list like xx = [], you can start with xx = '', and then do an update like xx = xx + ' ' + str (val). The result will be a string rather than a list. Then, you can just use the split() method on the strihg. Am sure you can take it from here ...


Answer URL
