Natural Text
so far I have this:However, this line is not functioning as I want it, it still returns a blank line on the log file:I want it to not return anything and simply continue the while loop, How would I fix this?
You should be usingEditYou're missing what the pass function is all about. I would re-write your look like so. This way we're only processing this if the msg is not one of the bad input. Once we're done we break out of the loop.
Evaluation of the rest of the loop will still continue after pass, and as None does not equal " ", this means the block beginning with msg2 = now1+spc+msg+"\n" will be executed.  You need to either unite the if ... if ... else into a single if block by changing if msg == " ": to elif msg == " ": or else change if msg == None: pass to if msg == None: continue.
Your condition doesn't make any sense. The input function will never return None, only strings.If you want to skip empty strings, a better test would be if not msg (empty strings are "falsy"). Or, if you want to reject any all-whitespace strings, try if not msg.strip() (which removes leading and trailing whitespace before checking if the rest of the string is empty or not).Further, it's rarely a good idea to write an if statement that just contains pass. Instead, invert the test so that the condition is true for cases where you want to run some code (in this case, when msg is not empty or all whitespace) and simply omit the cases where you'd do nothing:One final issue (unrelated to the main question). Python's exit function is primarily intended for use in the interactive interpreter. It is added to the builtins by the site module, and so it won't exist if Python was run with the -S flag. If you want to close the interpreter, you should instead call sys.exit, raise a SystemExit exception, or just run off the end of the main module (a break statement would probably do that for the loop you've shown here, or perhaps a return if you're in a function somewhere).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html
