Natural Text
What I would like the program to do is to take sequences related to a certain barcode and perform the defined function (average length and standard deviation of sequences, minus the barcode and non-relevant txt, identified by the same barcode). I have written something similar and based it off the similar program but I keep getting an indexerror. The idea is that all the sequences with the first barcode will be processed as barcodeCounter = 0 and the second one as barcodeCounter = 1, etc. Hopefully that is enough info, sorry if it is messy.Input:Output:This is the code I'm basing it on.EDIT:Added the enumerate function and commented out barcodeCounter stuff.New error:Code without the issue:@abarnert You were helpful, thank you. I'm not the brightest when it comes to programming sometimes(most the time). I had to also change the way I added the new sequences because they are  not .
You actually have two problems here.First, you're counting from 1 instead of 0. You start  at , then you increment it before using it. This means that if you have, say, 3 barcodes, you're trying to set , then , then , and the last one is going to be an .Notice that the code you based it on starts with  rather than  to avoid this problem.However, there's an even simpler solution to the problem: use  to do the counting for you:No need to remember whether to start at -1, 0, or 1, or where to do the incrementing, or any of that; it just automatically gets the numbers 0, 1, 2, etc. up to .Second, even if you counted correctly,  is not the same size as . In fact, it's completely empty, so  is always going to raise an exception.To append a new value to the end of a , you call the  method:Again, notice that the code you're basing it on always does a  before doing a . (Notice that it's a bit tricky—sometimes it s and increments , sometimes it does neither, and assigns to  using the previous value of .) You have to do the equivalent.
The code is used specifically to access something already existing in the list variable. The number you give it tells Python what part of the list you're looking for. Worth noting, the list starts counting from 0 and not 1. So the following code:will result in printing(a minus index actually counts from the end, so -1 gives you d, and -2 would result in c)An indexError is what happens when you give a number that the list has nothing stored for. If I tried to call list[4] I'd get an index error since it doesn't exist, just like if I tried to call a variable that doesn't exist.Unlike with dictionaries, you can't set a list value by providing a non existing index. You need to use a method like append, or extend but not the way you did it where you're giving an index and then calling the extend function. Strictly speakingis telling Python to take the value stored in list[3] and append an 'e' to that, not to the overall list itself.That's what would actually add e to my list.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/introduction.html#lists
