Natural Text
This is not causing me any problem that I can't solve by activating the virtual environment and running , but I always wonder where the older version of pip is coming from.I'm using OS X 10.7.5.  When I create a virtual environment using either  or , the version of pip that is installed inside the virtual environment is 6.0.8, but I have upgraded my global pip to 6.1.1.Here is a terminal session demonstrating what I mean:Here is what I would like to occur:I can't find a pip 6.0.8 anywhere else, other than what is created inside virtual environments.Here are the outputs of various commands that I have use to try and figure this out:I even tried using find:I thought maybe that the  might have been the culprit, but no:Hmm.  Perhaps the OS X python has it?6.1.1 is reported no matter which distribution of python I ask, whether it be OS X's 2.7.1, python.org's 2.7.9, or python.org's 3.4.3.Is it possible (or advisable) to update the version of pip that gets put into a virtual environment? 
I face the same issue, running  and . Most recently I created a virtual environment in a  machine with  and also ended up with an older version of  than available. had to upgrade .I've been upgrading  within the virtual environment to  from  manually, because I'm o.c.d about software library versions that way - and yes, I am upgrading my  version to  right now. Anyway, my system's  is the latest version , so I've also wondered why  creates a new virtual environment and loads it with old .I haven't noticed anything bad happen in any of the virtual environments due to upgrading , (but on the flip side, I haven't noticed anything good either) Apparently the new pip is faster -- didn't notice, and outputs less junk on successful installs because user's don't care -- also didn't notice, probably because i'm one of those that don't care, and also comes with a state-of-the art coffee machine capable of latte art to boot!!! -- still waiting on  to finish :(So, to answer your question, it is definitely possible, and probably advisable to upgrade, because apparently the new  fixes some bugs and goes faster, but I guess the speed up isn't that major, and the bug fixes don't affect all that many people (I've never faced a bug with my usage of the old ).You can link to system site-packages using the flag --system-site-packages when you create a new virtual environment, like thisThis will link to your system wide version of pip, and would remove the annoyance that is manually upgrading pip on every virtual environment, but if you do this, then is your virtual environment all that virtual?update: following my rant above, I went into the  package's source to dig.  is set up by a method called  in the file , line 248So, venv seems to be calling  from the shell using the  module.One more minute of google-fu gave me this from the documentation for ensurepip. ensurepip.version()Returns a string specifying the bundled version of pip that will be installed when bootstrapping an environment.So, from the command line, the following code:displays my current  that will be bootstrapped with .I guess we're stuck with the old version of  for every new install until  gets upgraded, as I can't find a way to upgrade the version of pip that comes with 
NewerIf you want to "hotpatch" your installed python, just modify the versions listed in  and replace the two files in . You can find this location by running  from the directory where python is installed. On macOS with Homebrew, this is the location: You will also want to delete the  directory that contains the  files.My older, build-time fix:You are able to update the bundled versions of pip and setuptools by patching Python before building it from source. The following patch will update the bundled versions of pip and setuptools to the current available today. You will want to invoke  with the following option: Those  files are downloaded from PYPI here:https://pypi.org/project/pip/#fileshttps://pypi.org/project/setuptools/#files


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/ensurepip.html
