Natural Text
My book says - Strings and lists are actually similar, if you consider a string to be a “list” of single text characters.Suppose that I have a string namely .Now this string should have some resemblance with a list. So I type in another code that would tell me what should the items of that list be. The code goes like - The output is:This clearly shows that the list items of  are Z,o,p,h,i,e. Now if I try to check wether the list has an item  by using: It returns True! That is, Python says that Zophie contains an item namely  but when I tried to list all the items using the for command,  didn’t show up. What’s happening here?
There are two different s:: The word  is part of the -loop syntax.The statement iterates over the elements of the iterable .If  is a string, then it iterates over the characters of the string.: The word  is a comparison operator. From the documentation, 5.9.1 Membership test operations:For the string and bytes types,  is  if and only if  is a substring of . An equivalent test is . Empty strings are always considered to be a substring of any other string, so  will return .
Any Python class is free to define various operations however it likes. Strings happen to implement the sequence protocol  (meaning that iteration and  item access behave the same as lists), but also implement , which is responsible for  checks, to look for substrings rather than just single characters.It is common for  membership testing to mean "x will appear if you print all the elements of y", but there's no rule saying that that has to be the case.
Looking at the section on Membership test detail, which is relevant to the  keyword. Paraphrasing from there,For the string and bytes types,  is  if and only if x is a  substring of y. An equivalent test is . Empty strings  are always considered to be a substring of any other string, so  will return .Although, I strongly suggest that elegant use of the  module can be picked over a membership test for a substring.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#membership-test-details
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html
