Natural Text
I've been tasked with converting some python code over to Java. I came across some notation I'm not familiar with and can't seem to find any information on. I'm guessing this is a lack of keywords on my part.I've sanitized the code and hard coded some basic values for simplicity.The logic doesn't really matter to me, I'm just trying to figure out what's going on in terms of datatypes and converting to Java.
This is called "slicing". See the tutorial sections on Strings and Lists for a good description of how it works. (In your example, it's actually a  array that's being sliced, not a list, but they work the same way. So, for simplicity, let's talk about lists.)The notation  is a slice of the entire list. So, you can do this:… to get a copy of the whole list, and this:… to replace the contents of the whole list.You may wonder how this is different from just using  itself. The difference is that in the first case,  doesn't copy the list, it just makes another reference to the same list, and in the second case,  doesn't mutate the list, it rebinds  to refer to a new list. Here's an example that shows the difference:You may wonder why anyone would use  on the right side of the assignment.Well, I wonder the same thing.If this is Python 2.x,  is a brand-new list. You replace the contents of  with the contents of that range list, then give up your only reference to the range list. There is no way anyone could possibly end up sharing it, so there is no good reason to make an extra copy of it, unless you're worried that your computer has too much CPU and too much RAM and might be getting bored.If this is Python 3.x,  is a smart range object. And  is a new and equal range object. The copying this time is a lot cheaper, but it's exactly as unnecessary.
The other answers are talking about what  means as an expression.  But when this notation is used as the target of an assignment (i.e., on the left side of the ), it means something different.  It is still a slice of the object, but it doesn't create a copy; rather, it assigns the given value (the right hand side) to the specified "part" of the object.  If you use , the slice is the whole object, so its contents will be replaced by what you pass.An example:Notice that you can replace the contents by new contents of different length.If you use a partial slice, only part of the contents will be replaced:
The notation:Is a range that starts at  and ends at . When you leave one of them blank, it counts as "beginning" and "end", respectively.Basically, your  is a list of values, each one has a number to associate with it that shows its order inside . It starts at  and progresses until the end. The line of code:Simply meansI hope this helps,happy coding!
It means getting a COPY of the original list, since lists are mutable in python, for example
 is an example of slice notation, Python's way to specify any number of items in a sequence.   specifies the entire sequence.  The notation is succinct and powerful in what it can express. Some other possible forms are: When slicing is used to modify items in a sequence, the item(s) are modified:When slicing is used to read items in a sequence, a shallow copy of the item(s) are returned instead of a reference to the item.  The term shallow copy means that if a copied item is itself a sequence, the item will refer to the original sequence, not a copy of it:For instance:


Answer URL
