Natural Text
I am working on a school project to make a video club management program and I need some help. Here is what I am trying to do:I have a txt file with the client data, in which there is this:The  is the separator for any file in data.And in the movie title data file I got this:where it is going is that in the rentedData file there should be that:I am able to do this part. Where I fail due to lack of experience:I need to actually make a container with 3 levels for the movie data file because I want to track the available and rented numbers (changing them when I rent a movie and when I return one).The first level represents the whole file, calling it will print the whole file, the second level should have each line in a container, the third one is every word of the line in a container.Here is an example of what I mean:I actually know that I can do this for a two layer in this way:It separates all the words in to this:Each line is in the same container (second layer) but the lines are not separated, not very helpful since I need to change a specific information about the quantity available and the rented one to be able to not rent the movie if all of the copies are rented.
I think you should be using dictionaries to store your data. Rather then just embedding lists on top of one another.Here is a quick page about dictionaries. http://www.network-theory.co.uk/docs/pytut/Dictionaries.html So your data might look likeThen when you want to retrieve a value.would yield the value.you can also embed lists inside of a dictionary value.Does this help answer you question?
If you have to use a txt file, storing it in xml format might make the task easier. Since there's already are several good xml parsers for python.For example ElementTree:You could structure you'r data like this:and then access and modify it like this: 
What you are actually doing is creating three databases:one for clientsone for moviesone for rentalsA relatively easy way to read text files with one record per line and a  separator is to create a  object. For storing the databases into your program I would recommend using lists of  objects for the clients and the rentals.And a list of dictionaries for the movies:The main reason for using a list of dictionaries for the movies is that a named tuple is a tuple and therefore immutable, and presumably you want to be able to change .Referring to your comment on Daniel Rasmuson's answer, since you only put the values of the fields in the text files, you will have to hardocde the names of the fields into your program one way or another.An alternative solution is to store the date in json files. Those are easily mapped to Python data structures.
This might be what you we're looking for


Answer URL
