Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:BeautifulSoup invalid syntax in Python 3.4 (after 2to3.py)                    1 answer                I want to write a simple code that create a html file from a site content. I'm using  library. When creating a  object with:I get this error:Invalid syntax (init.py, line 175)and this line makes the error:from bs4 import BeautifulSoupI installed the library by executing .What's the problem? My entire code:and error line in the init.py from the library files:
You're not making this too easy, but I think there is just enough information in what you posted to work out your problem.This line only works if you are using Python 3.x Since you get past this line I will assume that is the case.This line is using Python 2.x syntax. You appear to be attempting to import a Python 2.x library in a Python 3.x programme. That won't work. In Python 3 the  clause has this syntax (so you need  instead of a comma):Just to verify, if my assumptions are correct, the syntax error should be indicating the comma as the actual character producing the problem.I don't know why this is happening for you. I just installed bs4 using  and the code in the version just installed for me round line 175 is:which would work.
I was able to reproduce this problem on a Mac OSX 10.10.1 that has both the original Python 2.7.6 distributed with OSX and the Python IDLE on 3.4.2. After using I got the same error: The installer might be reading the default installation directory at /Library/Python/2.7/site-packages/ and assuming that BeautifulSoup will run on Python 2.7. Looks like a bug in the setup.
The solution can be found here.The issue is that the module that you downloaded is written in python version 2 which has incompatible syntax with the python version that you have installed on your computer (version 3). To solve this issue use the  tool located in  to manually convert each of the python files in the bs4 directory  from version 2 to version 3.For example typing  into your command prompt will convert the  file from version 2 to version 3. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/distutils/apiref.html#distutils.command.build_py.build_py_2to3
