Natural Text
I have the following input:The first line of the file explains each column of the data. Let n be the total number of students, then the next n lines of the file each corresponds to a student in the class, and contains 10 fields:Student IDLast nameFirst nameLecture sectionTutorial sectiomGrades for Assignments 1 (and so on...)Assuming the grades are stored in a file  then you can read an entire line of the file into a Python string s by using the following Python statements:You just need to open the file once, then you can use the  function multiple times, to read a successive line each time. After the n lines of student records, the file ends with a last line that says  short for .The number n is not known a priority. The sample input doesnt matter it can contain from 100 to 300 students, in a file named  We wish to eventually draw a histogram for grade distribution of Assignment 1. Therefore you need to extract thegrade of A1 for each student, by processing his/her corresponding line in the file. Construct a list that will have one entry for each student, storing his/her A1 grade. Each time you extract a new A1 grade, append it to this list.So far this is what I've have done:However I only get the first grade  and not the other A1 grades for any consecutive lines, all the A1 grades should be compiled into a list.I have this as my edited code but I still get an error. I get an index out of range error. 
I think the problem could be that you are not reading all lines from the file...maybe you could do something like thisThis is a way for do it, hope this could helps you...
For any well-formed data, the csv module is a good place to start - I suggest you have a read of the documentation for that, and give it a try.  Should get you moving in the right direction.  Otherwise, I suspect you've got some confusion on what your list is - a list of results from the most recent line, or a list of lines.  The code currently re-creates grades on each line, which may not be what you're trying to do...
I could be mistaken, but, with this input:and this (part of the) code:you only keep looping when there are exactly 5 columns. I count 10 columns (split by a comma). So, you immediately break after the first line (never converting the grades to a float either), and just get the results from the first line only.There are several other mistakes in your code, but you may want to fix this first.Btw, I assume this is from a Python course (seen the phrasing in your question), so I take it you're just learning the basics. If not or you want to do this better, I'd go with KevinL and use the CSV module.editFrom the new code (in the edited question):you don't have to check for . Loooping through the file () does that for you. already reads a line. No need for  again.For each splitted line, find the grade. Append this to a different list that you created (empty) at the start. This list contains your A1 grades.grades = []for s in file:    columns = s.split(",")    grades.append(columns[5])But: I think you need to step back, write very carefully what either your code is doing (or my code), or what needs to be done (not in code, in words, step by step). There is a lot you are missing, programming wise (not even Python wise).If this is homework, perhaps it's better to discuss it with other people who do this. Also, there is the Python tutor mailing list, which may be more suited.No offense, just trying to give some practical advice.


Answer URL
