Natural Text
Is there any standard convention to print an object in python. I know that if I just try to print the object it would print the memory address but I would like to overwrite that method and be able to print human readable format of the object to help in debugging.is there any standard convention people follow or is it not a good way to define such a method instead there are better alternatives?
You can overwrite either the  or the  method.There is no convention on how to implement the  method; it can just return any human-readable string representation you want. There is, however, a convention on how to implement the  method: it should return a string representation of the object so that the object could be recreated from that representation (if possible), i.e. .Assuming you have a class ,  and  could be implemented like this:Example:
Implement function  in the class for the object you are printing.  If you are printing objects for a class that you can't alter then it is fairly straightforward to provide your own  function, since you are using Python 3.Edit:  Usually the string returned by  will be specific to the class, but will at least be enough to identify the object.  The exact format of the string will vary depending on the class and public attributes.Edit2:  Here is a simple (cutdown) example from a class describing countries:
If your object can be represented in a way that allows recreation, then override the  function. For example, if you can create your object with the following code:The the  should return . You then don't need to implement a .But if the object is so complex that you can't represent it like that, override  instead. You should then return something that both makes it clear the object can't be recreated, and that it is an object. Hence, don't return , because that looks like a string, or  because that looks like a dictionary, and that will confuse you when you debug.I'd recommend that you keep the brackets, for example . That way it is clear that you have been printing an object, and it is also clear that it is not just a question of writing  to recreate the object, but that there is more data stored.
The standard way to print custom info about an object (class instance) is to use  method:In this method you can display any info you want


Answer URL
