Natural Text
I'm running MacOS Sierra 10.12.6 By default the system came with Python 2.7.10I installed Python 3.6.3 (with IDLE) so I can learn Python (3). I understand that this is normal as MacOS may rely on Python 2.x for some programs. Either way, Python3 runs just fine if I run python3 from the command line/terminal, or if I use IDLE (which defaults to Python 3).Now I want to install some libraries like Beautiful Soup.And I believe I can install it as follows:which should automatically install it. However, I read that it's recommended to use virtualenv on Mac BEFORE I run the above command. As a newbie, I don't want to mess anything up on my PC, so can anyone point me out how I can do this correctly?For example, I can follow this link: http://sourabhbajaj.com/mac-setup/Python/virtualenv.htmlBut I just want to write here to make sure I'm following the right article/commands before I do it. Just being super careful!Also, can I make a folder with my "virtual environment" and then add sub-folders inside that for each project? Meaning, I don't need to do this everytime, I have one virtual environment and any project that I do just is a subfolder within that space so I can use any libraries that I installed. Just trying to grasp the concept.Thanks! 
Sorry to add confusion.. this can be a tough subject for someone starting out. The official docs recommend venv, which is similar to,  but slightly different than virtualenv.I would strongly recommend pycharm. It will create your venv for you as part of your project,  which you might find helpful.[Edit: Some other virtual environment features of pycharm that will help you]. If you type in an import statement for a package that isn't installed, it will offer to install it for you.typing alt-F12 will bring you up a console with your virtual environment activeIt syncs up your requirements.txt document for youIt manages your virtual environment path for you (as long as you are running inside pycharm), helping avoid import problems that many newcomers have with virtual environments. I am not affiliated with pycharm, btw -- I just think it is a great tool for python developers, especially for newcomers, and its treatment of virtual environments is especially helpful. 
You create one virtualenv for each project as a way of keeping track of the specific dependencies to keep them minimal which then makes it easier when you want to share projects with other people.But this is not something you need. No harm comes from installing packages in your real environment as well. So you can safely run


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html
