Natural Text
In python, when I read others' code, I meet this situation where a class is defined and after it there is a pair of brackets.I don't know what is the meaning of '(SearchAgent)',because what I usually meet and use doesn't seem that.
It indicates that  is a subclass of . It's part of a concept called inheritance.What is inheritance?Here's an example. You might have a  class, and a  class. When implementing the  class, you may find that it has a lot of behavior that is very similar, or exactly the same, as a . In that case, you'd make Car`.We didn't define  on , and still, it exists, and returns 4 when called. That's because  has inherited  from . Inheritance is a very nice way to reuse functionality from other classes, and override or add only the functionality that needs to be different.Your ExampleIn your example,  is a subclass of . This means that it inherits some functionality from . For instance,  might implement a method called , that returns all the locations reachable from the agent's current location. It's not necessary to reimplement this, just to make an A* agent.What's also nice about this, is that you can use this when you expect a certain type of object, but you don't care about the implementation. For instance, a  function may expect a  object, but it wouldn't care about how it searches. You might have an  and a . As long as both of them inherit from ,  can use ìsinstanceSearchAgentfind_food`function might look like this:Old/Classic Style ClassesUpto Python 2.1, old-style classes were the only type that existed. Unless they were a subclass of some other class, they wouldn't have any parenthesis after the class name.New style classes always inherit from something. If you don't want to inherit from any other class, you inherit from .New style classes unify python types and classes. For instance, the type of , which you can obtain by calling  is , but the type of  is , with new style classes,  is . 
 is the superclass of the class . This basically means that an  is a special kind of .
It means that class AStarFoodSearchAgent extends SearchAgent.Check section 9.5 herehttps://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/classes.html
This is inheritance in python, just like in any other OO languagehttps://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/classes.html#inheritance
It means that  is a base class of . In other word,  inherits from  class.See Inheritance - Python tutorial.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#inheritance
