Natural Text
I am in the process of trying to create a program to randomly deal two cards. However, it keeps popping up with the error:I am not sure, but I think this means that the class  does not have a value . But, in the  function, it is defined. I am completely stumped.Class Code:File that runs creates instance:
This line does not create an instance of your  type, it merely copies a reference to it. So when you then call , you are essentially doing  which does not have access to the instance properties.Instead, you should create an instance, and then call the method on that instance:In that context, it’s also important to note that, to call a method, you do not pass a value for . The  is implicitely set when you call the method on the instance. So when you do , the  is automatically set to the dealer instance. If you were to call , you would pass a second parameter which the method does not have, so you would get an error. This is also a problem with your  call in :  will set  as the second parameter, giving you an error. Just doing  is what you want to do.That being said, note that your  method will have an infinite loop, as you keep iterating as long as  is not 3—but you never change the value of . So you probably want to increment the value in the loop. But even then, accessing  on an empty list will result in an IndexError, so you want to fix that too. You could reset the list first, and then just  new cards to it, but even better is to just create just a new list with 3 cards at once. You can use a list comprehension to make this simple and short:Finally, your  might not do exactly what you expect it to do. Usually, you would expect every card to have the same chance. The way you do it however is that a Club card has a chance of 1/4, a Spades card a chance of 3/16, a Hearts card a chance of 9/64, and a Diamonds card a chance of 27/256. This leaves a chance of 81/256 to get no card. This is obviously not correct.The reason this happens it that you make a random choice for every test. So to test whether you get a Clubs card, you make a choice (1/4 chance). If you don’t get one (3/4 chance), you make another choice to get a Spades card (1/4 chance; so 3/4*1/4 in total), etc. Instead, you would want to make a choice just once and then reuse that result for the subcategory:This also makes it impossible that you don’t get a random card from the method, since you always get one of the four suits.Finally 2, as gboffi mentioned in the comments, you don’t have any protection in place that prevents you from getting multiple identical cards. It’s possible (unlikely but still possible) to get three times the same card from , which is—in most games—not possible.To prevent this, you could use  on a list of all cards. This will get you three (or any number) cards that are definitely distinct. It also allows you to have a real “deck” which you draw cards from which stay out of the deck then until you restart the game.With your setup, you could make a new deck like this:This essentially just combines all the four card lists, creating a new one which you can then draw from. To draw three from them, you could use  like this:And then you could remove those cards from the deck:Another way would be to follow the real way a bit more closely. Instead of drawing random cards form the (sorted) deck, you could just shuffle the deck first, and then draw cards from the top. To shuffle a list, you can use , and to draw and remove a card from the list, you can use :
You are not creating an instance here:That's just another reference to the class (a type), so the  method isn't called either.Call the class to produce an instance:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.sample
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.shuffle
