Natural Text
In Python, what is a method_descriptor (in plain English)?  I had this error, and I can't really find any information on it:
Switch to .I am not interested in debugging this error...You should be. If you're uninterested in debugging errors, you're in the wrong field. For the sake of polite argumentation, let's charitably assume you authored that comment under the duress of an unreasonable deadline. (It happens.)The standard  module is incapable of serializing so-called "exotic types," including but presumably not limited to: functions with , nested functions, lambdas, cells, methods, unbound methods, modules, ranges, slices,  objects,  objects,  objects,  objects,  objects,  objects,  objects,  objects,  objects, and (...wait for it!)  objects.All is not lost, however. The third-party  package is capable of serializing all of these types and substantially more. Since  is a drop-in replacement for , globally replacing all calls across your codebase to the  function with the equivalent  function should suffice to pickle the problematic method descriptors in question.I just want to know what a  is, in plain English.No, you don't. There is no plain-English explanation of method descriptors, because the descriptor protocol underlying method descriptors is deliciously dark voodoo.It's voodoo, because it has to be; it's the fundamental basis for Python's core implementation of functions, properties, static methods, and class methods. It's dark, because only a dwindling cabal of secretive Pythonistas are actually capable of correctly implementing a descriptor in the wild. It's delicious, because the power that data descriptors in particular provide is nonpareil in the Python ecosystem.Fortunately, you don't need to know what method descriptors are to pickle them. You only need to switch to .
method_descriptor is a normal class with ,  and  methods.You can check the link for more info at Static vs instance methods of str in Python


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/descriptor.html
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/descriptor.html#descriptor-protocol
