Natural Text
I haveI am trying to detect a collision. I'm a bit stuck. (detectCollision)I am having trouble getting the value from the point class to the rectangle class.Does anybody have any idea?The function detectCollision is wrong. I was testing and I could get the width, and the height with getHeight() but I could not get the values inside Point.
I am having trouble getting the value from the point class to the rectangle class.I think you need to read through a good tutorial on classes. Maybe the chapter in the official tutorial, or maybe a third-party tutorial. StackOverflow is not a good place to learn basic concepts.You don't actually want to get a value from the point class, you want to get the value from a particular point instance. After all, there are lots of points in the world, and each one has different  and  values, and you're trying to check if some particular point has collided with the rectangle.How do you know which instance? You take one as a parameter. And then you can access that object's members, methods, etc., just like you do with a string or any other object.That's it.Except that you probably don't want  and  methods in the first place; better to just do  and .Also, I've obviously had to make some assumptions about how you defined  (left/top/bottom/right? left/right/width/top? topleftpoint/bottomrightpoint?) and about what you mean by "collision" (hitting the edge of the rectangle, or the interior of the rectangle?), etc., since you didn't explain any of that. But hopefully you can adapt this to whatever your actual design is.So, how do you use this? You just pass a point as an argument to the method, same as you do with, say, :Now that you've shown us more of your code, it looks like you're trying to collision-check two rectangles—and, more importantly, your problem is that your rectangle uses a  as its top-left origin, and you don't know how to access the coordinations of that.From your description, "I was testing and I could get the width, and the height with getHeight() but I could not get the values inside ", you seem to still be missing the key issue here. You don't want to get the values inside .  is a class—a factory for creating actual point objects. You want to get the values inside one of those actual point objects, the one you've stored in a rectangle object's  and made available through a  method. (As I already explained, you should get rid of those getter methods and just have a  attribute, but let's forget that for now.)So, the way you get the particular point object you're interested in is to call  on the rectangle, and then the way you get the x and y values for that particular point object is to call its  and  methods. So, here's an example of using all those methods:Or you can combine those calls into one expression:So, you can do something like this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html
