Natural Text
I have an API string which responds with an XML page, and has my data stored as CSV in the "data" tag (I can request it in JSON format but I haven't been able to handle the data correctly in my Python script in that format).And in JSON format:Firstly, I would like to store the text from the "data" tag by referencing the name of it, but I've currently only had success by using this following:Is there a separate command to be able to specify the name of the tag?Next, my goal is to loop through different URL's (which correspond to different accounts), and append the name of those accounts to the end of the data. Is this possible, given that the data is stored as a string and I would need to add it to the end of each row? As a follow up, what's the best convention for saving multiple values in a variable to be able to loop through i.e. the list of accounts?Apologies if this is unclear, I'm happy to provide any more information if it means anybody can help.
As far as I understood, you have a specific URL for each user and you want to collect data for all users given.However, since you are not able to get the username out of the response you have to combine the response with the username corresponding to the URL the request was sent to. If so, you could use a dictionary to store the data of your response since the JSON-format is equivalent to Python's dictionary.The code below simply iterates through a set of tuples containing the different user names and the corresponding URL. For each URL a request is sent, the data is extracted from the JSON-formatted response and stored in a dictionary with the username as a key. This dictionary is then stored () in a kind of main dictionary containing all your collected datasets.
Thank you Albert.Your JSON suggestion let me control the data in a much better way. The code below is what I ended up with to get to my desired output. Now just to work out how to convert the date from MM/DD/YYYY into DD/MM/YYYY.I don't know how well this follows best practice for Python but as I said, I am very new to it.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#sets
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#tuples-and-sequences
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#dictionaries
