Natural Text
If I try to do:I get this error:Because it said bytes-like object I then tried this:Which failed.Finally, using the  function:With incorrect output , the correct base64 encoding is .I already know how to decode b64 to hex so don't say how to do that.Edit: This question got flagged for being the same as converting hex strings to hex bytes.  This involves base64.
To fully go from the string  to base64 of the hex value, you need to run it through some encoding and decoding, using the  module:For an odd-length string like  you need to put a zero at the beginning of the hex string (), otherwise python will give you an error.
Here's an alternative to using codecs.This one is a bit less readable, but works great and hopefully teaches you how codecs, hex and integers work. (word of caution, works on odd lengths, but will ignore the odd byte-string-representation)Which should give you .Your main problem is probably that you think  represents the values . Which they don't. They're still in a string format with the letters ff. Subsequently you need to parse/convert the string representation of hex, into actual hex. We can do this by first passing the string through  which can intemperate hex in string representation format.You will need to convert each pair of  individually by doing  which tells Python to intemperate the string as a base-16 integer (hex-numbers).And then convert that integer into a bytes like object representing that integer. That's where struct.pack comes in. It's meant for exactly this.Essentially,  tells Python to pack the value 255 into a 1-byte-object, in this case, that gives us  which is your end goal. Now, do this for every 2-pair of letters in your original data.This is more of a manual approach where you'll iterate over 2 characters in the string at a time, and use the above description to bundle them into what you expect them to be. Or just use codecs, either way works.Expanded version of the above oneliner:At the very least, I hope this explains how hex works on a practical level. And how the computer interpenetrates hour humanly readable version of bits and bytes.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/struct.html#format-characters
