Natural Text
I am learning python, coming from c++. From what I am reading, there only appears to be two forms of for loops in python. I can either iterate over a range, or through the elements of a collection. I suppose the former really is the latter...so maybe one form.Is there any other form?I am used to looping until a condition is false. There doesn't seem to be a way to evaluate a condition in a for loop in Python. Is that correct?Since there is no (init;condition;post) , how would you do something like iterate over every other string in a collection of strings, in python?C++ would look like:
A for loop is the same thing as a while loop, just in a slightly different syntax.  If you have a for loop that looks likethat is equivalent to the while loopbecause Python has while loops, if you wanted to iterate over every other string, you would changeto
(Most Common)Three kinds of loops :  - You dont have this kind of loop in python  - while loop in python  - for loop in python
I am used to looping until a condition is false. There doesn't seem to  be a way to evaluate a condition in a for loop in Python. Is that  correct?Correct. For loops don't evaluate conditions by themselfs, they iterate through an iterable. When you write , that  must be an iterable. See the link for more details.The important part is that a for loop goes through all the elements of the iterable. If you want to skip one or more elements, you have to implement a condition inside the loop (like ) or build a second iterable where you exclude the elements that must be skipped and use the for loop on that.Since there is no (init;condition;post) , how would you do something  like iterate over every other string in a collection of strings, in  python?There is an high chance that a collection of string is an iterable (depends of what object you use to collect the strings). If you need conditions on the index you can use range() and use indexes, or enumerate(). If fact there are several ways to obtain the same result, other answers already pointed out few of them.Your c++ code:can be rendered for example using range():In this case  is an iterable. In python2 would be a list: . In python3 is a range object, which if converted to a list would be again .
Consider this (credit to @Teghan for pointing out [::2] version):Output:
You might be searching for while loops
You want a while loop:To your specific example:how would you do something like iterate over every other string in a collection of strings, in python?You could use a for loop and check a condition:But a more pythonic way would be to access only every other element in the list of strings using list indexing, and process each string:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-iterable
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#func-range
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#enumerate
