Natural Text
I have to retrieve the data from xml file and has to enter into the database. There was no error when I run my python file but the data is not entering into the database. I am unable to find where I went wrong. It would be very helpful if anyone could help me.Here is my python code,I am using python 3.6.5 version.Here is my xml code,
The reason behind your issuesYou have 18 lists which all are empty, and that is why you do not see any effect on the database after insertion.I am unable to find where I went wrong.Your problems emanate from the misunderstanding on how to use : finds only elements with a tag which are direct  children of the current element.So let me take   as an example:What is ? It simply points to the root element of your XML tree which is , in your case:Now ask yourself: which are the direct elements of collection? You see there are 6  direct children elements and absolutely no  element.So when you run , you are simply looking for direct children of collection  which are called , and since there is no one, your list  is empty.So later in your code, when you run this:  you are simply looping over an empty list, and you got nothing from nothing, I mean:Now apply this reasoning to the 8 remaining first lists with their corresponding 8 lists in the second part of your code.How to fix the problems?How to solve your problem then? Well, if you understood what I explained above, you are already half way to fix your issues. Let us do it:After loading your XML file into , initialize the 9 empty lists you need:Then loop over your data after taking in consideration its hierarchy and how  works. For example, let us focus on the :Now do the same logic for the remaining 8 lists you are looking for:Now your lists have data, and your insertion should work successfully.Extra note:Of course,  would simplify the code much more than when using 
Connecting to the database begins a new transaction, by default. If auto-commit is disabled (usually by default), you should commit to confirm any changes you make, or rollback to discard them.Simply addat the and of your code to commit changes.There might be other errors, it would be better if you provide  for testing. At least, the quote for one of the fields is missing in the query.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html#xml.etree.ElementTree.Element.findall
https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html#xml.etree.ElementTree.Element.findall
https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html#xml.etree.ElementTree.Element.iter
