Natural Text
I have pairs of 4 lists a and b with integer values such as  and . The idea is that the integer values in  are now represented by the integer values in , and the same for  and  etc.Now I have a list of 4 columns  which contained integer values corresponding to the  lists. I want to map the values in  to the values in the  lists. What is the quickest way to do this in python ?Is there a quicker way than using lists ?Edit:To clarify the question, take the following example:Note that some of these lists can contain more than a million entries (So maybe memory can be an issue)The lists do not have the same lengthAll of the integer values in these lists are unique to their lists, i.e.  will never have a repeating integer value. should look like  after the mapping occurs To put things into perspective, this questions is for a database application where these "lists" contain auto-generated key values
I think what you want is a dictionary, which associates keys with values. Unless i'm confused about what you want to do here.So if I make 4 short example lists.and make them into a big list of all "a" values and all "b" values.I can then use zip to merge the lists into a dictionarySee:how to merge 2 list as a key value pair in pythonfor some other ways to do this last bit.result:Now your "a" list makes up the keys of this dictionary.. while the "b" list make up the values. You can access the values by using the keys. here's some examples.gives me:Is this what you want?EDIT: I feel that I should note that while my dictionary has printed in order, dictionaries are actually not ordered like lists. You might want to look into collections.OrderedDict or sorted if this is important to you.Update:For what you want to do, maybe consider nested dictionaries. You can make a dictionary whose values are dictionaries, also note that when 1a and 1b don't match in length,  doesn't care and just excludes 60:Result:Now you can access the inner values in a different way:Result:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/sorting.html
