Natural Text
Firstly I'm aware that there have been multiple questions already asked regarding this particular error but I can't find any that address the precise context in which it's occurring for me. I've also tried the solutions provided for other similar errors and it hasn't made any difference. I'm using the python module  to save an object to file and the reload it using the following code:This doesn't throw any error but then when I try and open the file using the following code:I get this error:I'm aware other people have seen this same error (Hitting Maximum Recursion Depth Using Pickle / cPickle) when doing  and I've tried increasing the maximum recursion depth by doing  but this doesn't work, I either get the same error as above or I increase it further and python crashes with the message: .I suspect that the root of the problem is actually when I save the object with  but I don't really know how to diagnose it. Any suggestions? (I'm running python3 on a windows 10 machine)
Here's a fairly minimal class derived from  which performs the same trick that your problem object does. It's a dictionary which allows you to access its items either via normal dict syntax, or as attributes. I've thrown in a few  calls so we can see when the main methods get called.outputSo far, so good. But if we try to pickle our  instance, we get  because of that  which does the magic conversion of attribute access to key lookup. We can overcome that by providing the class with  and  methods.outputBut what can we do to repair an existing class with this behaviour? Fortunately, Python allows us to easily add new methods to an existing class, even one that we obtain via importing.This code produces the same output as the previous version, so I won't repeat it here.Hopefully, this gives you enough info to repair your faulty object. My  &  methods only save and restore the stuff in the  dictionary. To properly pickle your object, we may need to be a bit more drastic. For example, we may need to save and restore the instance's  attribute, rather than just the  attribute, which corresponds to the  attribute in your problem object.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.UserDict
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html#object.__getstate__
