Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:How do I create a variable number of variables?                    16 answers                I want to create variables dynamically via a while loop in Python. Does anyone have any creative means of doing this?
Unless there is an overwhelming need to create a mess of variable names, I would just use a dictionary, where you can dynamically create the key names and associate a value to each.There are also some interesting data structures in the new 'collections' module that might be applicable:http://docs.python.org/dev/library/collections.html
playing with globals() makes it possible:one result:I used random because you don't explain which names of "variables" to give, and which values to create. Because i don't think it's possible to create a name without making it binded to an object.
Use the exec() method. For example, say you have a dictionary and you want to turn each key into a variable with its original dictionary value can do the following.Python 2Python 3
Stuffing things into the global and/or local namespaces is not a good idea. Using a dict is so some-other-language-ish ...  just looks awkward. Python is OO. In the words of a master: """Namespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those!"""Like this:
Keyword parameters allow you to pass variables from one function to another. In this way you can use the key of a dictionary as a variable name (which can be populated in your  loop). The dictionary name just needs to be preceded by  when it is called.Without ,  is just a dictionary:
NOTE: This should be considered a discussion rather than an actual answer.An approximate approach is to operate  in the module you want to create variables. For example there's a :Running it would outputBut this approach only works in a single module script, because the  it import will always represent the module of the entry script being executed by python, this means that if  is involved by other code,  the  variable will be created in the scope of the entry script instead of in  itself. Assume there is a script :Running it would outputNote that the  is changed to .

For free-dom:ResultAnother way:result:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#vars
