Natural Text
I can't figure out how you find a percentage of a variable in Python. This is the example of the code:It always just adds 21 because it sees 5% and gives the equation (5% money) the value of 5.
The  symbol in python is the modulo operator in python. It doesn't compute a percent, rather  determines the remainder after dividing  by . If you want the percentage of a variable, you just have to multiply it by the decimal value of the percent:
While the  symbol means "percent of" to us, it means an entirely different thing to Python.In Python,  is the modulo operator. Takes the thing on the left, divides it by the thing on the right, and returns the remainder of the division.So when you do , Python reads it as "divide  by  and return the remainder". That's not what you want at all!To answer the question, we need to look at what a percentage is. Percent comes from Latin per cent, meaning "per one hundred things". So "five percent" literally means "take five out of every hundred things." Okay, great! So what?So to find a percentage of a number, you must multiply that number by its decimal percentage value. 5% is the same thing as , because  represents "five one-hundredths" or "five things for every hundred things".Let's rewrite your code a little bit (and I'll clean up the formatting somewhat).I made a few adjustments:Instead of manually incrementing both  and , let the loop take care of that; that's what it's for, after all!Replaced  with , which is how Python will understand what you wantReplaced your print statements with a single statementUsed the advanced formatting  to produce a number that cuts off to just two decimal places (which is usual for money, but you can erase the  if you want the full floating-point value)See 6.1.3 — Format String Syntax for more information about how these arguments workReplaced statements like  with  because it's more concise and easier to read to advanced programmers (in my opinion)Adjusted whitespace around operators for readability


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#format-string-syntax
