Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:What is the purpose of a backslash at the end of a line?                    1 answer                I found this code in the nltk documentation (http://www.nltk.org/_modules/nltk/sentiment/vader.html)Can someone explain what this if condition means?
A backslash at the end of a line tells Python to extend the current logical line over across to the next physical line. See the Line Structure section of the Python reference documentation:2.1.5. Explicit line joiningTwo or more physical lines may be joined into logical lines using  backslash characters (), as follows: when a physical line ends in a  backslash that is not part of a string literal or comment, it is  joined with the following forming a single logical line, deleting the  backslash and the following end-of-line character. For example:There is also the option to use implicit line joining, by using parentheses or brackets or curly braces; Python will not end the logical line until it finds the matching closing bracket or brace for each opening bracket or brace. This is the recommended code style, the sample you found should really be written as:See the Python Style Guide (PEP 8) (but note the exception; some Python statements don't support  parenthesising so backslashes are acceptable there).Note that Python is not the only programming language using backslashes for line continuation; bash, C and C++ preprocessor syntax, Falcon, Mathematica and Ruby also use this syntax to extend lines; see Wikipedia.
It is used as a line break so the  condition can be written in the next line.
In this case, the  is escaping the following new line character. Because Python cares about whitespace, this code is using this to allow code to be continued on a new line.
It escapes end of the line - for readability purpose. (extends line to the next one, as the \n character is not visible but it has syntactical meaning.)
The backslash is used to indicate a line break in this  condition. The PEP8 says:Backslashes may still be appropriate at times. For example, long, multiple with -statements cannot use implicit continuation, so backslashes are acceptable: Apart from these conditions linebreaks are usually indicated by proper indentation.Edit:Apparently the  statement is an exception that does not allow for line breaks just by indentation and therefore uses the backslash, while  should not be used with .


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#line-structure
