Natural Text
I have the following python code:What happens here? I can't understand this because  is not Boolean.
Python has a concept of truthy-ness where non-Boolean values are basically "coerced" into Boolean ones, as shown here:4.1 Truth value testingAny object can be tested for truth value, for use in an  or  condition or as operand of the Boolean operations below. The following values are considered false:zero of any numeric type, for example, , , .any empty sequence, for example, , , .any empty mapping, for example, .instances of user-defined classes, if the class defines a  or  method, when that method returns the integer zero or bool value .All other values are considered true - so objects of many types are always true.Operations and built-in functions that have a Boolean result always return  or  for false and  or  for true, unless otherwise stated. (Important exception: the Boolean operations  and  always return one of their operands.)Bottom line is that  comes under the "All other values are considered true" clause since it matches none of the values that would be considered false. The closest it comes is the third one (numeric type) but, since it's non-zero, it doesn't quite get there.
Any object can be tested for truth value, for use in an if or while  condition or as operand of the Boolean operations below. The following  values are considered false:NoneFalsezero of any numeric type, for example, 0, 0L, 0.0, 0j.any empty sequence, for example, '', (), [].any empty mapping, for example, {}.instances of user-defined classes, if the class defines a  nonzero() or len() method, when that method returns the integer zero or bool value Falsehttps://docs.python.org/2.4/lib/truth.htmlSo since value isn't one of those things, it takes the if, not the else!
Check this documentation materials. In python as in many programming language.  kind of values gives  while any other value returns .
It is going to be False only if value is equal 0 or ""


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#truth-value-testing
