Natural Text
I'd like a function in my module to be able to access and change the local namespace of the script that's importing it. This would enable functions like this:Is this possible in Python?
To let the module access your script's namespace, you will have to pass the namespace to the function. For example:The inside of the code would look like this:Sidenote: In this case, the globals dictionary is not needed but in cases where you need to modify global variable, you will need to use the globals dictionary. I have included it here for this reason to make the function extensible.However, it would be easier to just set  as Eli Sadoff said. It isn't a good practice to pass namespaces to other programs.
An answer was generously provided by @omz in a Slack team:This provides the advantage over the  solution that it works in multiple levels of imports, for example if  imports  which imports my module, ,  can modify 's globals, not just 's (I think)However, if I understand correctly, modifying the local namespace is more complicated. As someone else pointed out:It breaks when you call that function from within another function. Then the next namespace up the stack is a fake dict of locals, which you cannot write to. Well, you can, but writes are ignored.If there's a more reliable solution, that'd be greatly appreciated.
Disclaimer: This solution can only modify global variables, so it's not perfect. See Is it good practice to use ? for pros and cons.In foo.py: is a name given to the current top-level program. For example, if you import  from a module , then  can be referenced with the name . If you import  from , which was initially imported from a module , then  is , etc.If you actually want to modify variables in  rather than , for example because  contains unit tests, you can use something like this:
It's easy to set in the , because we know it's name.  


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/__main__.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#locals
