Natural Text
I have a program that generates two lists. I want to print an item from list1 then switch to printing an item from list 2 and then go back to printing from list1 ..etc. However whenever I try it it just prints list1 then list2. Please help.Code:Output: Desired output:
My answer is based around the code for your question. If this is the format you are wanting then use my answer. Otherwise, the other answers are more Pythonic as stated.Please note that I've renamed "continue" to "switch" as continue is a reserved Python word, producing a syntax error.If you set the state of the variable switch then break the loop it will do exactly as you desire.Due to this loop break I .pop() the 0th index value to ensure the correct output is received.This code is very inefficient and I am sure you can find other methods of producing your desired output.Edit: To do this with unequal list lengths you must add switch = False at the end of the while switch == True: loop and vice versa for while switch == False:Edit 2: This also gives you a solution for switching between loops :)
Python's built-in zip function provides a very concise way of achieving that goal.This is a much more Pythonic solution. You don't need two different loops, you need one loop that prints them in the order you desire. The "zip" function will put the list into pairs, then put each pair into x,y as the loop progresses. Thus, you'll be able to print a value from each list at each iteration of the list.Sometimes when asking questions people can have the xy problem, in which they ask about their solution to a problem rather than asking about the problem itself. It's always good to take a step back and ask whether your approach seems like the best one, and if you're having problems with it, what other approaches might be possible. It seems like you're thinking about your problem as a problem of jumping back and forth between two lists, which led you to think of two loops, one for each list. But a better solution involves a single loop that keeps track of both lists at the same time. 
The continue = False does not prevent the for loop from running to completion. The while condition is only evaluated after the for loop completes. This causes all element of List1 to be printed and then all elements of List2.There are a number of ways to loop through two lists


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#zip
