Natural Text
I have an array of 10-bytes (80-bits) Little Endian float values (or float80). How can i read this values in python 3?The package struct does not support float80 (may be I read the docs carelessly).The package array as same as package "struct" does not support float80.The package numpy supports float128 or float96 types. It's very good, but appending \x00 in a tail of float80 to extend it to float96 or float128 is ugly, importing of this package takes a lot of time.The package ctypes supports c_longdouble. It's many times faster then numpy, but sizeof(c_longdouble) is machine-dependent and can be less then 80 bits, appending \x00 in a tail of float80 to extend it to c_longdouble is ugly too.UPDATE 1: test code at my gist.github.The function decode_str64 is ugly, but it works. Now I'm looking for right way
Let me rewrite my answer in a more logical way:ctypes c_longdouble is machine dependent because the longdouble float type is not set in stone by the C standard and is dependent on the compiler :( but it is still your best you can have right now for high precision floats...If you plan to use numpy, numpy.longdouble is what your are looking for, numpy.float96 or numpy.float128 are highly misleading names. They do not indicate a 96- or 128-bit IEEE floating point format. Instead, they indicate the number of bits of alignment used by the underlying long double type. So e.g. on x86-32, long double is 80 bits, but gets padded up to 96 bits to maintain 32-bit alignment, and numpy calls this float96. On x86-64, long double is again the identical 80 bit type, but now it gets padded up to 128 bits to maintain 64-bit alignment, and numpy calls this float128. There's no extra precision, just extra padding. Appending \x00 at the end of a float80 to make a Float96 is ugly, but in the end it is just that as float96 is just a padded float80 and numpy.longdouble is a float96 or float128 depending of the architecture of the machine you use.What is the internal precision of numpy.float128?
numpy can use 80-bit float if the compiler and platform support them:Whether [supporting higher precision] is possible in numpy depends on  the hardware and on the development environment: specifically, x86  machines provide hardware floating-point with 80-bit precision, and  while most C compilers provide this as their long double type, MSVC  (standard for Windows builds) makes long double identical to double  (64 bits). Numpy makes the compiler’s long double available as  np.longdouble (and np.clongdouble for the complex numbers). You can  find out what your numpy provides withnp.finfo(np.longdouble).I checked that np.longdouble is float64 in stock numpy-1.11.1-win32.whl at PyPI as well as in Gohlke's build and float96 in numpy-1.4.1-9.el6.i686 in CentOS 6.
The padding, or rather, memory alignment of extended-precision floats on a 4 (x32) or 16 (x64) byte boundary, is added - by recommendatation from Intel no less - to avoid a performance hit associated with handling non-aligned data on x86 CPUs. To give you an idea of the hit's magnitude, some figures from Microsoft show ~2 times difference for DWORDs.This layout is ingrained into the underlying C's long double rather than being numpy's invention, so numpy doesn't attempt to provide any way around it to extract/insert only the "significant" part.So, adding padding by hand if you have raw data without padding looks like the way to go. You can speed up the process by writing directly to the underlying buffer:Or even attain much more speedup by porting the code to Cython (if using raw buffers, the speedup compared to regular array indexing can be as much as 100x! This would hurt the code's maintainability though so beware of premature optimization here).Alternatively, for an "interchange" format, you might consider using one that is not bound to internal representation, like savetxt.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/decimal.html
