Natural Text
The below script works fine, until I added in "def test", I am trying to get rid of all global variables my programming in general and as I'm not a great programmer, I hope there is a way to do this.  I want to pass "foo" from function "test" back to Function "work" but this does not work as its not a global variable.  Any ideas?EDIT:Thank you, this works...  I appreciate all the feedback as I am a novice, keep in mind this was just a test script I put together to understand passing parameters to different functions.  Before this I was using globals and I'm trying to get rid of them.Thank you, any advice is helpful. 
Add the following to the end of your test() function:then you can print the variable in work() like this
foo is only defined in the "scope" of the function test(), since that is where you created it. The function work() has no knowledge of the variable foo, as it is undefined outside of the function test(). So, test() has to return the variable foo to the place that called test(), which is the line test(data) in work(). So, yes, add return foo to the end of test(). Edit:When you say test(data), that is basically saying sum([1,2,3]). You've called a function, but you're not doing anything with the result, you're not assigning it. You have to say new_variable = test(data). This means, from the perspective of work(): "call the function test() and have it do its thing. I don't care what's going on inside of test(), but I am expecting to it to spit something out at me when it is done. I will assign that something to a variable in my scope so I can use it later".It is just like saying x = sum([1,2,3]). sum is a function that does something inside of it, you don't really care what, you just know that it should return a sensible value that you will assign to x to use later. Edit2: Also, as it stands, test() is going to return a boolean for foo, since you use the == operator rather than the assignment operator =. 
Your test function should be written likeIn a function that calls test, assign the resultNote that your code has some unrelated problems, e.g., what should happen if data is neither 3 nor 5?


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/
