Natural Text
i am new to programming and have been studying some code to get to know about OOP.Here is what i have understood and need help on,1) import gym and env=gym.make('String') : This means gym is a library, and make is a class under it? Have we created an object instance?I understood classes contains methods inside them..i.e functions..but in this case i am not able to decipher clearly.The line after this env.monitor.start()..this contains 3 parts..what does each indiciate..i thought env was an object instantiated earlier.Thanks for your help, apologise if the question is stupid
 can be a package or a module. The  statement doesn't tell you what  is. gym.make means that you are calling a method called 'make' from gym.  is then whatever  returns, which may or may not be an object. It has a monitor attribute which seems to be startable, from the method , so I'd guess that it is, but you can't know this without looking at the code for gym or calling .  means that the start method from  is called. What  is can't be determined without looking at the code for gym.
Here's the basic structure of the above program: statements bring modules into the program. These modules contain functions. The module is able to use these functions. For example,imports a module  and gives it an alias of .  belongs inside the module and so we're able to call it.We don't need aliases. We can also just say but it's slightly less convenient. is just a name for the return value of the function . Functions always return something, such as an actual object, an integral type (like an integer, or a string), or .The return value doesn't need to always be stored, such as in . It simply performs some data manipulation.As for the rest of the program, it's ran by s and  statements. Read about it here.
can be a package or module. There is no way to tell what it is by its import statement. can either assign the return value of the call of function  from  to variable , or create an item of class  and assign that item to variable  means the  variable most likely returned an item of class that has a property/subclass called . This property/subclass possess a function called  most likely also has a subclass/property  with a function 
gym.make('CartPole-v0') returns an object.Therefore, 'env' is an object.'env' contains a property, 'monitor', which is also an object. The 'start' method is a method of the 'monitor' object, not the env object. Another way to write it would be (env.monitor).start('/tmp/cartpole-experiment-1',force=True)For the sake of repetition,


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html
