Natural Text
I have string variable test, In Python 2.7 this works fine.But in Python 3.3. I use with the input string sdas, and I get an error messageTraceback (most recent call last):File "/home/ananiev/PycharmProjects/PigLatin/main.py",line 5, in   test = input("enter the test")File "", line 1, in  NameError: name 'sdas' is not defined
You're running your Python 3 code with a Python 2 interpreter. If you weren't, your print statement would throw up a SyntaxError before it ever prompted you for input.The result is that you're using Python 2's input, which tries to eval your input (presumably sdas), finds that it's invalid Python, and dies.
I'd say the code you need is:Otherwise it shouldn't run at all, due to a syntax error. The print function requires brackets in python 3. I cannot reproduce your error, though. Are you sure it's those lines causing that error?
sdas is being read as a variable. To input a string you need " "
I got the same error. In the terminal when I typed "python filename.py", with this command, python2 was tring to run python3 code, because the is written python3. It runs correctly when I type "python3 filename.py" in the terminal. I hope this works for you too.
In operating systems like Ubuntu python comes preinstalled. So the default version is python 2.7 you can confirm the version by typing below command in your terminal if you installed it but didn't set default version you will see in terminal. I will tell you how to set the default python version in Ubuntu.A simple safe way would be to use an alias. Place this into ~/.bashrc or ~/.bash_aliases file:After adding the above in the file, run the command below:source ~/.bash_aliases or source ~/.bashrcnow check python version again using python -Vif python version 3.x.x one, then the error is in your syntax like using print with parenthesis. change it to 
Well question is very simple, i don't know why people have answer this badly.Solution: If using python 2.x :If using python 3.x :



Answer URL
