Natural Text
This is my first post on here, so I don't hope this isn't in the wrong topic or something, but I've run into a somewhat unusual problem with a Python app I'm writing.  Basically, what I'm trying to get it to do is to read from a text file and insert part of it into a Tkinter text widget.  The text file contains the usual "\n" line breaks, but when I run the code I get this bizarre error that I haven't been able to cook up a workaround for:(BTW, sorry for the lousy set-up here... not sure how to work this new code-entering system; it seems to "play by its own rules" and have its own syntax, so I just copied/pasted it below:During handling of the above exception, another exception occurred:So the function that caused the problem -- just a "linecache.getline" used in a for loop -- works perfectly when there is no "\" in the text, but for whatever reason it doesn't like the "\" and starts spittin' errors. : /So tonight I've spent nearly an hour on the "docs" (http://docs.python.org/3/howto/unicode.html), reading all the history and basic concept of unicode, but it was loaded with assumed knowledge and while it was informative and helpful on a concept-only level, it didn't seem to do much in terms of practical information and potential solutions.The only solution I can come up with to defeat this annoying little bug is to use "/n" instead and programmatically split the strings into an array (or a "list" as they seem to be called in Python), then use a loop to break it up into more than 1 line... but that sounds like a lot of unnecessary steps, especially if there is a common workaround already in existence.  So I would appreciate any insights on how to solve this particularly mysterious problem.Thanks.
The data that the UTF-8 decoder has been given is not UTF-8. That's why you get the error. You need to give us the code that fails and some data examples to explain exactly what is happening.The character in question is "¿" in Latin-1 and CP-1252. Perhaps this is a Spanish text written on a Windows machine? In that case, specify the encoding when opening the file.


Answer URL
