Natural Text
I have made a very simple game in python using pygame. The score is based on whatever level the player reached. I have the level as a variable called score. I want to display the top level at the start or end of the game. I would be even more happy to display more than one score, but all of the other threads I have seen were too complicated for me to understand, so please keep it simple: I'm a beginner, only one score is necessary.
I recommend you use shelve. For example:Next time you open your program use:and it will be read from disk. You can use this technique to save a list of scores if you want in the same way.
You can use the pickle module to save variables to disk and then reload them.Example:This saves a single score to disk. The nice thing about pickle is that you can easily extend it to save multiple scores - just change scores to be an array instead of a single value. pickle will save pretty much any type of variable you throw at it.
I come from a Java background, and my Python isn't great, but I would look into the Python documentation on reading and writing to files:http://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/inputoutput.htmlYou could write a score variable to a plaintext file before you end the game, and then load the same file the next time you start the game.Look into the read(), readline(), and write() methods.
You can use a dict to hold your highscore and simply write it into a file:Usage:Output:
First create a highscore.txt with a value zero initially.Then use the following code:I could make a permanent highscore storer with this simple method, no need for shelves or pickle.
I usually store the player names and high-scores as a list of lists (e.g. [['Joe', 50], ['Sarah', 230], ['Carl', 120]]), because you can sort and slice them (for example if there should be a maximum of 10 entries). You can save and load the list with the json module (json.dump and json.load) or with pickle.The highscores.json file would then look like this:
I would suggest: 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html
