Natural Text
I am getting the Following error when trying to execute the following function.
You are defining a keyword argument by using :That makes everything before the  a Python expression, namely . Python doesn't allow this.If you wanted to print out a nicely formatted expression, you'll have to use separate string arguments:Python writes out separate arguments with a space to separate them (but you can use  to set a different string to separate them, including the empty string to have no separation at all).Note that you don't actually have to convert  to a string here, the  function converts all arguments to strings before writing them to the console.You could also learn about Python string formatting, which gives you a bit more control over the whitespace handling, as well as alignment end value formatting, for example.The following would print out your numbers and the result as part of a format string with the same amount of spaces:Each  placeholder is then filled with the next argument you passed into the  method. You can remove the spaces here too if you wanted to.Last, but not least, the  function always returns . You don't have to return that from your function, remove the . Your actual use of the  function doesn't use the returned value anyway:
Why am I getting this syntax error: keyword can't be an expressionBecause what you write in parentheses after a function name (including  in python3) are arguments of the function. Any argument written in the form  is a keyword argument. You cannot use an expression (here a product) as a keyword.
I assume you want output likeThe first part of this is some fixed text you want printed. Thus you need to put in in a string and print that. You can print multiple things like . This should be enough for you to figure out 
You have two issues:You are writing an expression inside a print statement. Instead you want to make a formatted string and substitute the values into the string:Secondly, you don't need to return it.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.format
