Natural Text
I have some old programs from back in the times when python 3.1 came out. In the program I often used the  to pass a function and it's parameters like this to my TKinter application:Now I wanted to use my programs again but the - Object was gone. In the web I found that this functionality was removed in python 3.2, and none of the alternatives worked for me.Finally I decided to reinstall python 3.1. However, I have no idea if it is possible to have multiple python 3 versions installed at the same time or how to 'create' a shell command for this version when I want to use this special version.My questions are:Is there a replacement for the - Object that was removed?How can I use multiple python versions at the same time?How can I create a matching shell command?
It does not seem that Python ever had  built in. You may have confused it with  predicate which indeed was removed and then brought back:New in version 3.2: This function was first removed in Python 3.0 and then brought back in Python 3.2.All references of  on the web that I could find point to swampy package (a by-product of Think Python book), which has :You can also look at answers to this question, where OP wanted to reimplement  for the same purpose.Installing Python 3.1If you still want to try to install the old version of Python 3, you can give the following a try. I assume that Raspbian is Debian-based distro and the same commands apply. Here's the  that verifies that you can do it on Debian Jessie-compatibe system. You can try the  commands from it in your shell:
Callable looks suspiciously like .  Here's partial at work. when i run:I get:You should be able to do:
From the , run with:
In terminal , give the path where python 3.1 is installed like this:Alternatively you can try to create virtual environment and activate itthen you can run the given scripthere is the helper link: http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/
Using  command. It can help you use python flexibly.Here's the sample code.
If python 3.1 is unavailable, as seems to be the case from the comments on @JoeIddon answer, you may have to alter your code base. In this case, you can:Monkey patching Callable with functools.partialhas the advantage of avoiding multiple code modifications.Alternatively:replacing Callable() with lambda works, but carries the burden of multiple code alterations.replace with:  
Finally I got a answer to all of my questions. I used a lot of stuff from the answers here in order to solve all my problems. Here they come:1) Is there a replacement for the callable object that is gone?Basically no. At least none that is working in this context. I will explain why this does not affect my solution.I made the mistake to just rip out the code out of my TKinter-application without watching my -dependencies. The anwer of saaj made me rethink if had ever used swampy, and indeed I did. I even found the german equivalent ("Programmieren lernen mit python") in my bookshelf. Silly me! X}I had my GUI components defined in different files, and I just imported them in the , my main application.I was not very advanced in programming so I didn't know that e.g.:sub.py: (was written long before main.py)main.py:This constellation lead to the behaviour that when I wrote main.py, I didn't have to say . If I would have written this, I would have known instantly what I would have to import in my new program. When I recently saw this code I thought  was from the standard library. Unfortunately, there existed a function only different in one character (major C instead of minor c) in python before and was removed. This mislead me to seach for alternatives. Stuff like  (credits to e.s.), would have worked in some situations, thanks for the knowledge, but it didn't work quite a few times.When I finally found a  in one of the submodules, I was angry at myself for stepping into this tripwire.(Ironically I was the one that resolved exactly that issue).Credits in this part to: saaj, e.s., and myself(for the research stuff)2)+3) How to install multiple python versions at the same time?Well, I had a look at all suggestions and for me, the  worked out best. I managed to install python3.1 with the suggestions of:sanket mokashi (The virtual environement suggestion)saaj (The dockerfile stuff worked out as it should)Byeongguk Gong (That was the most comfortable way of doing this!)I just mention this here because it is part of the question, but I didn't need this anymore, I'll just leave the answer here for anyone that passed by and needs it.At the end of writing all this down in a summary of my results, I want to thank all guys who helped me out with this issue. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#callable
