Natural Text
OK, so very, very new to coding and python.  Goal of this script:  How many times do you have to roll 'x' dice to have them all come up the same value?Here's what it tries to do:Take a number of dice from the userSimulate rolling all those diceIf all the dice match, print out how many attempts were made to succeed, if they don't match, try again.Here's what happens:If the user input a small number of dice, 1-4 or so, it works fine.  Once the user inputs 5 dice (or more) it runs into a 'maximum recursion depth exceeded while calling a python object' error.  it appears to be part of the call to  random.randint I'm hoping someone can give me a little guidance as to how to avoid this error, given that I'm not sure why the recursion becomes infinite.  I have attempted to comment my code so that it makes sense (at least to me).  If it matters, I am working in python 2.6 in the Enthought Canopy environment.
Python has fairly low recursion limit by default (IIRC, 1000 stack frames). Your code doesn't cap the recursion (there is no  check), so if it recurses too many times trying to "win", it hits the limit and dies.You could set a higher recursion limit, but that only extends the cap a little bit; every additional die reduces the odds of a given roll winning by 1/6, so you always win with one die, win 1/6 for two, 1/36 for three, 1/216 for 4, 1/1296 for 5, etc. The odds of a win drop quickly; a higher recursion limit would still fail occasionally by chance, and it wouldn't give you much in the way of additional capacity for more dice most of the time.You really need to ditch the recursion in favor of imperative techniques.
In answer to your question, the best way to avoid this error is to avoid recursion. Although it can be said that most iterative procedures can be done recursively, that doesn't mean that it should be.In your case, you are attempting to iterate over a non-determined amount of times that can, possibly, get exponentially larger as the number of dice grows, as the amount of combinations in a dice roll are  or  for  number of dice.Not only that, your iterations are simple are just iterating a single variable () by 1 each time. In other words, you are running the EXACT SAME code over and over and over and ... over again until a certain stop condition. The usual answer to this? a loop. more specifically, a while loop. There is no need for recursion.So restructure your code to this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html#sys.getrecursionlimit
https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html#sys.setrecursionlimit
