Natural Text
I have just started learning OpenCV using Python and the first tutorial starts with capturing video using either in built laptop webcam or external webcam. And as it would happen, I have neither. So I thought if it would be possible to use Camera of my Android Smartphone and then capture that video using IP for further processing.My Smartphone: Moto EOS: Windows 7Language: PythonAndroid Application : IP WebcamI have searched the net extensively but am unable to find any working solution, so can anyone please guide me on how to capture the video from my smartphone using IP Webcam.Sorry for posting no code as I am just trending into this field so am completely clueless.Thanks.
This is probably much harder than what you're expecting, for a variety of reasons.The first would be bandwidth. A modest stream of raw video (640x480 pixels, 8 bits per channel, 30 frames per second), requires a bandwidth on the order of 200mbps. While USB (2) easily reaches these speeds, you'll be hard pressed to find a wireless connection that does so reliably.Now you may be thinkingHow come I can watch 1080p internet videos in my phone with no problem whatsoever then?Virtually all videos transmitted over a network are compressed using specialized algorithms, such as MPEG4, H.264 and VP8. These algorithms vastly reduce the bandwidth needed to transmit video.Great! Then I can just compress the video from my phone live and stream it to my computerNot so fast! There's two main problems with that. The first is that, in order to achieve such a drastic reduction in amount of video data, video compressors (encoders) need to spend a lot of processing power crunching the video. You'll probably find that your phone doesn't have enough CPU power (or dedicated hardware) to encode video at a resolution and frame rate usable for your task.If you manage to solve that and find a app that does the job, the second problem is that, in order to get the (encoded) video data in OpenCV, you'll need to decode it! You can find readily available software to decode video files, but for decoding a live stream of video, you'll need to program your software to perform the decoding (preferably using a library or OpenCV itself). At this point, you'll be cursing and regretting you didn't spend the $15 on a webcam (but you'll have learned a lot of interesting stuff in the process :)
Android 'IP Webcam' App video stream import to Python OpenCV using urllib and numpy;)
Here's a repo that does live broadcast of Android Video:
This thread seams to be old but just want to add my answer. So this is how I was able to achieve the task in python 3.5, OpenCV 3.2 and android app "IP WEB CAM". The url (http://192.168.0.103:8080) in the get function is the streaming address provided by ip web cam app.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/urllib.html
