Natural Text
The following line, unless I'm mistaken, will grab the absolute path to your directory so you can access files This is what I've been using typically access files in my current directory when I need to use images etc in the programs i've been writing.Now, say I do the following since I'm using windows to access a specific image in the directoryThis is where my question lies, this works on windows, but if I remember correctly  is for windows and this will not work on other OS? I cannot directly test this myself as I don't have other operating systems or I wouldn't have bothered posting. As far as I can tell from where I've looked this isn't mentioned in the documentation.If this is indeed the case is there a way around this?
Yes,  is just for Windows. You can use , which will be  on Windows,  on classic Mac,  on almost everything else, or whatever is appropriate for the current platform.You can usually get away with using . Nobody's likely to be running your program on anything but Windows or Unix. And Windows will accept  pathnames in most cases. But there are many Windows command-line tools that will confuse your path for a flag if it starts with , and some even if you have a  in the middle, and if you're using  paths, a  is treated like a regular character rather than a separator, and so on. So you're better off not doing that.The simple thing to do is just use :As a side note, in your first line, you're already using —but you don't need it there:It's perfectly legal to call  with only one argument like this, but also perfectly useless; you just join the one thing with nothing; you will get back exactly what you passed in. Just do this:One last thing: If you're on Python 3.4+, you may want to consider using  instead of :
Use  instead of :The function will join intelligently the different parts of the path.
os.path.join will intelligently join the arguments using os.sep which uses the OS file separator for you.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html#os.path.join
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html
