Natural Text
How do I initialize the python interpreter such that it already has variables in its memory?  For example, how could I initialize a[n i]Python interpreter, and type as my first input:without first binding the name ?
If you are using ipython, you can configure it to load scripts automatically for you.Run which will create default profile in your home directory.Create a file called  and addNow at the end of , add this line so that it will load that file every time interpreter startsNext time when you launch ipython shell, you can access those variables.
You can create a script containing your "setup" code, and then execute it and enter interactive mode. For example:  Run with:I believe IPython should support the same option. The other alternative for IPython specifically is to just start it, then say:Which will run that script in your current shell, giving you access to everything defined there.
In addition to the other answer, you can explicitly drop into interactive mode like this:execute normally
There are three options for the standard Python interpreter:, as explained in tzaman's answerdropping into interactive mode from within , as explained in Jordan P's answersetting the environment variable .That last one is useful if you want to start and stop Python hundreds of times. Just  and as long as you're in the same shell, it'll always load . Or, if you want it more permanent, put it in your profile (or Windows System Control Panel Environment Variables or whatever). is especially handy with  and its  hook. Just set the hook to  and you can have a different setup for each environment.In fact, what  actually does is, in effect, override  with a one-time temporary value.IPython has its own very powerful (but somewhat complicated) configuration and customization system. You can build a dozen different profiles, and edit each one to enable and disable the use of  and , change  to use a different variable name, execute various lines of code each time a kernel is started, and so on. Most of what you want is under Terminal IPython options, if you're using it at the terminal.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#cmdoption-i
https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONSTARTUP
