Natural Text
I am new to programming and trying to get a head start on my class next semester. I am trying to show the total cost and then print it. Where am I going wrong? 
Problem 1Fix your indentation. Python uses indentation to define what block code is executed in (i.e. in an  statement, or after it). Here's what you should do:Select all (cmd / ctrl + a), and then keep pressing (cmd / ctrl + [) to de-indent. Do this until nothing is indented.On any line you want in an if / else statement, press the TAB key at the start of that line.Problem 2The  function (which gets user input) returns a string. You then try to compare this to an undefined variable . Replace the  in your  statements with  or  to ensure you are comparing two strings.Problem 3Remember to end all of your strings, with a closing quotation mark. You forgot one printing "Thank You" after the "Would you need a flight?" question.Replace:  with Problem 4Second-to-last line, you define , which is never used. Then, you try to use the undefined  function to add up your three variables. This line of code, in general, makes no sense. I am assuming that you meant this:Problem 5You can't concat floats / ints to strings.This should be the final line:Also, you forgot the concat operator () when appending the exclamation mark.Final Code:Here is the working version of your code:Recommendations:This works, but it could be better. Here are a few recommendations, which will help you not only with this project, but also with further ones:You can combine your  and  functions together, since  basically prints and then waits for input. To format it like you have now, simply include a newline character, . For example, instead ofyou could doThese lines could actually be simplified further. You don't need to define the variable , but instead you can just use its' output directly in the  statement, i.e. Learn to use  /  statements to catch errors. When entering the amount for a travel expense, the user has to type a number. But what if they type a string instead? Your program would crash. Learn how to use  /  statements to prevent this from happening (https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html)There's not really much apart from that. These were all just beginners mistakes, and soon you'll be writing good code that works well :DI was also impressed to see how you handled the "yes" / "no" user input by converting the answers to lower case and then checking them, which is something that a lot of people of your skill level neglect to do.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html
