Natural Text
First off, sorry for the wall of text. I try to explain the issue as much as I can.Hello, from the title you may think that I refer to a simple if statement and that may be true. I've done some questions today about this project and now I want to do something else. I'm doing a bot using the League of Legends Api. What the bot do is just print some stats from the current game of a given player. To those unfamiliar with the game, there are ranks. The rank is one of the stats that the bot prints to the chat where it is working on; those stats are from ranked games, unlike normal games, ranked games are the ones that count to these stats. Anyway; I'm getting the data as json and each time that a player is Unranked (not ranked player) I get a 404 from the request and I want to handle that 404 to print something else. Right now, this is the important part of the code:When I run this code the output is something like this:... and so on; but while that is happening if it finds an unranked player like I mentioned before it throws a KeyError because, well, it can't find any ranked data on the json. So; I commented out some lines which are the ones that I want to implement.This:I tried placing this exactly where it is and I was getting a KeyError again; if I place that right here:I get the players and the champions being played but the ranks of each one is displayed as Unranked; everyone is Unranked. The question is, how can I implement that to my code? I'm not sure if I'm in the right path on doing this.I would like the output to be something like:Everything is so I can run the bot properly because every time there is an unranked I get an error and I just can't avoid that (except for looking a match without an unranked player)Thanks for any help! :)
You can try adding a try except block at the exact place where you are getting a KeyError, this will try to get the value at that key, if it does not exist, it will catch the exception that it does not exist and you can handle this exception as you wish (in your case, unranked player)for example - if this was your json or your dictthen, if you surround it with a try except block like this: Hope this helps!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html
