Natural Text
So, I input a list of numbers and go through the list and check if the first value in that list is less than the second value if so add it to list1, carry on until the value is greater than the next value.So, if I input ListNum([1,2,3,4,5,6,2,3,4])i should get list1[1,2,3,4,5,6]but its not working
I assume that you never want to add the last item in x to list1 because there isn't an item after it to compare it with.Your code doesn't work properly because for i in (x): iterates over the items in x, not their indices. But even if it did iterate over the  indices your code could crash with an IndexError because it could attempt to compare the last item in the list with the item after it, which doesn't existHere are several ways to do this.outputlist_nums0 simply iterates over the indices of x. list_nums1 uses zip to iterate in parallel over x and x[1:]. This puts the current & next items into u and v.list_nums2 uses enumerate to get the current item in u and the index of the next item in i.list_nums3 uses takewhile to iterate over the tuples yielded by zip until we get a pair of items that don't satisfy the test. It performs the whole operation in a list comprehension, which is slightly more efficient that using .append in a traditional for loop. Here are versions that also add the last item in the list if we get that far. The simple way to do this is to create a new temporary list that has a last item guaranteed to be greater than the "real" last item. outputOf course, this strategy will fail if you pass an empty list. The simple way around that is to put this at the top of the function:Eg,We can rewrite list_nums3 like this to keep it a one-liner:
You don't need the indexes, you can zip your list like this:This also has the benefit of fixing the bug when the list is sorted.
If you do for i in x, you iterate through elements in x, not their indexes.To iterate through indexes, you have to do for i in range(len(x)).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html#itertools.zip_longest
