Natural Text
I have am building an application that involves and some non-django functionality.I have an app 'wit' under the source  directory that is a django application and that has test cases that are being deferred.But there are also test cases under that are not being discovered or runsrc/utils is not a django application in the installed apps listWhen I run doThe tests under src/utils are not being discovered or runI am using django jenkins report coverage to get coverage reports.I would idealy like all the test cases to be invoked with one invocation so that over all code coverage reporting works.Or else I would like to know how to invoke separately if the above is not possibly so that I get to run all my test cases anyway.How do I debug this, and figure out which directories are being explored.
DebuggingIs your utils dir a valid python package (has an __init__.py?).And, are the modules under it importable? E.g can you do the following:If the above raises an ImportError, making it importable is one way you can make the tests "discoverable". Another way would be to specify the directory explicitly when running the tests:This provides two labels to the test runner: src.wit which a full Python dotted path and src/utils/ which is a relative directory.Explanation[Django docs state] that it "unittest module’s built-in test discovery". The first paragraphs in the linked docs say:Unittest supports simple test discovery. In order to be compatible  with test discovery, all of the test files must be modules or packages  (including namespace packages) importable from the top-level directory  of the project (this means that their filenames must be valid  identifiers).Test discovery is implemented in TestLoader.discover(), but can also  be used from the command line...Just to clarify further, the discover() method docs says:discover(start_dir, pattern='test*.py', top_level_dir=None)Find all the test modules by recursing into subdirectories from the  specified start directory, and return a TestSuite object containing  them. Only test files that match pattern will be loaded. (Using shell  style pattern matching.) Only module names that are importable (i.e.  are valid Python identifiers) will be loaded.All test modules must be importable from the top level of the project.  If the start directory is not the top level directory then the top  level directory must be specified separately.If importing a module fails, for example due to a syntax error, then  this will be recorded as a single error and discovery will continue.  If the import failure is due to SkipTest being raised, it will be  recorded as a skip instead of an error.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html#test-discovery
https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html#unittest.TestLoader.discover
