Natural Text
Hoping someone can help me out. I've spent the past couple hours trying to solve this, and fair warning, I'm still fairly new to python.This is a repost of a question I recently deleted. I've misinterpreted my code in the last example.The correct example is:I have a dictionary, with a list that looks similar to:I'm using .append for both 'name', and 'items', which adds the dic values into two new lists:I need to split the item value using '_' as the delimiter, so I've also split the values by doing:None is used in case there is no value. This provides me with a new list for name, items, with the delimiter used. Disregard the fact that I used '_' split for names in this example.When I use this, the index for name, and item no longer match. Do i need to create the listed items in an array to match the name index, and if so, how?Ideally, I want name[0] (which is john), to also match items[0] (as an array of the items in the list, so pants, shirt, socks). This way when I refer to index 0 for name, it also grabs all the values for items as index 0. The same thing regarding the index used for bob [1], which should match his items with the same index.@avinash-raj, thanks for your patience, as I've had to update my question to reflect more closely to the code I'm working with.
I'm reading a little bit between the lines but are you trying to just collapse the list and get rid of the field names, e.g.:Now the data is directly related vs. indirectly related via a common index into 2 lists. If you want the dictionary split out you can always
You need a list of dictionaries because the duplicate keys name and items are overwritten:Alternatively, you can do this in one line with the built-in zip method and generators, like so:
From Looping Techniques in the Tutorial. That will work if your dict is structured
In the loop body ofyou'll probably want to access x (to which the items in dic will be assigned in turn) rather than dic.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#looping-techniques
