Natural Text
I wonder if you can help because I've been looking at this for a good half hour and I'm completely baffled, I think I must be missing something so I hope you can shed some light on this.In this area of my program I am coding a query which will search a list of tuples for the salary of the person. Each tuple in the list is a separate record of a persons details, hence I have used two indexes; one for the record which is looped over, and one for the salary of the employee. What I am aiming for is for the program to ask you a minimum and maximum salary and for the program to print the names of the employees who are in that salary range. It all seemed to work fine, until I realised that when entering in the value '100000' as a maximum value the query would output nothing. Completely baffled I tried entering in '999999' which then worked and all records were print. The only thing that I can think of is that the program is ignoring the extra digit, which I could not figure out why this would be?!Below is my code for that specific section and output for a maximum value of 999999 (I would prefer not to paste the whole program as this is for a coursework project and I want to prevent anyone on the same course potentially copying my work, sorry if this makes my question unclear!):The maximum salary out of all the records is 55000, hence why it doesnt make sense that a minimum of 0 and maximum of 100000 does not work, but a maximum of 999999 does!If any more information is need to help, please ask! This probably seems unclear but like I said above, I dont want anyone from the class to plagiarise and my work to be void because of that! So I have tried to ask this without posting all my code on here!
Given your use of the print function (instead of the Python 2 print statement), it looks like you're writing Python 3 code. In Python 3, input returns a str. I'm guessing your data is also storing the salaries as str (otherwise the comparison would raise a TypeError). You need to convert both stored values and the result of input to int so it performs numerical comparisons, not ASCIIbetical comparisons.
When you read in from standard input in Python, no matter what input you get, you receive the input as a string. That means that your comparison function is resulting to:Can you see what the problem is now? Because it's a homework assignment, I don't want to give you the answer straight away.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#input
