Natural Text
Python 3.4.0 introduced , I've read the doc but still don't know the usage of it. From my perspective, enum is an extended  type, which may not be true. So these are what I want to know about enum:When and where to use enum?Why do we need enum? what are the advatages?What exactly is enum?
1. When and where to use enums?When you have a variable that takes one of a limited set of possible values.For example, the days of the week:2. Why do we need enum?  What are the advantages?Enums are advantageous because they give a name to a constant, which makes code more readable; and because the individual members cannot be rebound, making Python Enums semi-constant (because the  itself could still be rebound).Besides more readable code, debugging is also easier as you see a name along with the value, not just the valueDesired behavior can be added to EnumsFor example, as anyone who has worked with the datetime module knows,  and  have two different represntations for the days of the week: 0-6 or 1-7.  Rather than keep track of that ourselves we can add a method to the  enum to extract the day from the  or  instance and return the matching enum member:3. What exactly is Enum?Enum is a type, whose members are named constants, that all belong to (or should) a logical group of values.  So far I have created s for: is my most complex; it uses this recipe, and has methods to return the actual date the holiday takes place on for the year given, the next business day if the day in question is a holiday (or the range of days skipped includes the holiday or weekends), and the complete set of dates for a year.  Here it is:Notes: is from my dbf packagethe enhanced  (supporting a range of dates) is also custom, but I don't think I have included it anywhere; I'll stuff it in my  package next time I tinker with it.Disclosure:  I am the author of the Python stdlib , the  backport, and the Advanced Enumeration ()  library.
PEP 435 ("Adding an Enum type to the Python standard library") behind the introduction of  in Python has a lot of examples of how the authors intended it to be used.More comments here.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/enum.html
