Natural Text
I have produced code to randomly generate random strength and skill values for a character in a game, the code is as follows;The code works but I need to be able to save the results of the program to a .txt file that can be opened by the player to see and the strength and skill are saved under the entered characters name. So is there anyway to save what the program prints to the text file or do I have to do something else? All help is appreciated.
You can write text to files very easily. Have a look at http://docs.python.org/3.3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#reading-and-writing-filesInstead of printing to the standard output, you can write to the text file like this:However, there are many possible improvements to this code. I'll try to explain some of them.If you're saving the same information for every character, there is no need to write the code more than once. Consider using a function for this:You don't actually need to write to the file as you compute the values. It's usually clearer if you have one function that provides them, and another that writes to the file:Note that in order to have the code that provides the value just once, we've used an additional function.Other improvements you could look into arewriting the content with a simple template. Look for string formatting in the documentation.using meaningful variable names for the random formula (not usually a good idea to have magic numbers floating around!)saving the information as a more machine-readable format. Look for the json module in the documentation.Good luck!
I would creagte a csv file using csv.DictWriter with the header row containing the appropriate column names. That is 'Name', 'Stamina', 'Strength'. Alternatively, if you want to save exactly what you print, create a long string. and do open, write, close. I have to run now but will expand this laterYou should create variables and use them for the print and write. You can use a loop to determine the names and other characteristics. Note that I did not use the with open formulation in order to allow setting up a function and to allow for other processing and writing before the close. If you want to automatically close the file at the end use the method. This will close the file as soon as you exit the scope (as shown by the indentation)The 'ab' will create the file if it does not yet exist or append to an already existing file.For a csv file, you would useOf course, you would have to create a python program to read the csv file and process it rather than having the user just bring up the text file in an editor using csv.DictReader. However, this could be part of the game.
The answers posted all require you to manually open files and choose to write to them at the same time as printing to the file you want. If you just want to be able to print things to both a file and standard output at the same time, use Python's logging module.Then when you run this, at the console you will see:The output is printed to the screen, but it also goes in a logfile:Loggers allow you to do much more than just this, but they work for the basics as well. If you need more help, see the basic logging tutorial.


Answer URL
