Natural Text
I have a string representation of binary integers and I need bytes having the exact bit structure, to send over the sockets.For e.g. if I have a string of length 16 :  then I need 2 bytes of same bit structure. In this case, the first byte should have an int value of  and the second one as . It doesn't matter if they can be printed in  format or not. How do I get it ?I tried the following method which creates bytes in the form of . But this is of size 6 bytes instead of 2.This method takes a string of length 8 and intends to give a byte of the same internal bit structure, but fails. (I need something similar to  in .)Any help, please ?
First, if you have the bit string as a literal value, just make it a base-2 int literal, instead of a string literal:If you have non-literal bit strings, and all you need to do is parse them into integers, then, as martineau says in a comment, the built-in  constructor is all you need, as martineau says, because it takes a  as an optional second argument:If you need to do anything fancy with bit strings, you'll probably want to use a third-party module like  or , which let you create objects that can be treated as strings of 1s and 0s, sequences of booleans, integers, etc.:Once you have an integer, you can pack it into 2 bytes with , as martineau also explained in a comment:The  means "network-endian". If you want little-endian or native-endian (or big-endian, which is of course the same as network-endian, but might be a more meaningful way to describe some contexts), see Byte Order, Size, and Alignment. The  means to pack it as an C —that is, two bytes.But if you're using a third-party module, it probably has something simpler. For example, if you have a  from the previous example:
A simple way to convert binary string data like the one you have is to use the built-in  function and tell it the number is in base 2 binary instead of the default base 10 decimal format:This will return a an integer value. To convert that into a string of bytes you can use the  function in the  mode and tell it the data argument it a  (2-byte) unsigned integer by using a format string of :Since you want to send this over a network socket, I also added a  prefix, which indicates that the bytes returned should be in "network" or big-endian byte-order rather than the native format of your computer (which might be different).Note the string returned for the example will be . The  at the end is because the byte value  happens to be an ASCII newline character so Python represents them that way when it displays the  of a string that contains one (which is what the Python interactive console does after every expression automatically).


Answer URL
