Natural Text
How do you append to the file instead of overwriting it? Is there a special function that appends to the file?

You need to open the file in append mode, by setting "a" or "ab" as the mode. See open().When you open with "a" mode, the write position will always be at the end of the file (an append). You can open with "a+" to allow reading, seek backwards and read (but all writes will still be at the end of the file!).Example:Note: Using 'a' is not the same as opening with 'w' and seeking to the end of the file - consider what might happen if another program opened the file and started writing between the seek and the write. On some operating systems, opening the file with 'a' guarantees that all your following writes will be appended atomically to the end of the file (even as the file grows by other writes).A few more details about how the "a" mode operates (tested on Linux only). Even if you seek back, every write will append to the end of the file:In fact, the fopen manpage states:Opening a file in append mode (a as the first character of mode)  causes all subsequent write operations to this stream to occur at  end-of-file, as if preceded the call:Old simplified answer (not using with):Example: (in a real program use with to close the file - see the documentation)
I always do this,It's simple, but very useful.
You probably want to pass "a" as the mode argument.  See the docs for open().There are other permutations of the mode argument for updating (+), truncating (w) and binary (b) mode but starting with just "a" is your best bet.
Python has many variations off of the main three modes, these three modes are:So to append to a file it's as easy as:Then there are the modes that just make your code fewer lines:Finally, there are the modes of reading/writing in binary format: 
when we using this line open(filename, "a"), that a indicates the appending the file, that means allow to insert extra data to the existing file.You can just use this following lines to append the text in your file
if you want to append to a file We declared the variable myfile to open a file named test.txt. Open takes 2 arguments, the file that we want to open and a string that represents the kinds of permission or operation we want to do on the filehere is file mode options
You can also open the file in r+ mode and then set the file position to the end of the file.Opening the file in r+ mode will let you write to other file positions besides the end, while a and a+ force writing to the end.
Here's my script, which basically counts the number of lines, then appends, then counts them again so you have evidence it worked. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#open
