Natural Text
I'm working on the MIT intro to computation and programming course and I'm trying to store a multi-line string in a variable that I can use for the program to interact with the user.  I know about the """ for inputting long lines of code with carriage return inserting a newline character (I think I phrased that somewhat accurately).What I'm running into is the string being stored look shitty in my code and it looks a lot cleaner to use the triple quote but I still want it to print out on one line.  I am trying to store it in a variable like so:and I tried to call that variable in my console like this:but it still prints out on three separate lines.  Is there an efficient way to do this so that my code doesn't look messy?  Storing the string in a variable seems like a good way to cut down on my typing when I need to call that particular output for the user to interact with, but I'm sure there are better ways to do this.  Thanks!
You can place backslashes at the end of each line to prevent the newline character from printing in your strings.If you want, you can also use separate strings for the same purpose.
Your problem is that the string contains intrinsic EOL characters.  The print statement doesn't add any new-lines, but they're already embedded in what you tell it to print.  You need to replace those, such as:Result:
Answers are kind of all over the place here.. Here is a usefull experiment for you. Type the following line into your IDE:Now manually format the string by pressing enter after each punctuation, you will get:The above is string concatenation and would provide what your looking for in a "clean" way. The accepted answer is not exactly as "clean" as it could be but since were: "arguing semantics" XD
You can create a single-lined string over multiple lines:
Following code will help you to achieve what you are trying to do:Or alternatively you can alternate the quotes.First line of the following code illustrates the point:Hope this is what you were trying to achieve and this helped ;)Cheers!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/textwrap.html
