Natural Text
I am trying to build Python (3.5.2) on OS X El Capitan (10.11.5). However, I run into an error when I try to make it. The error seems to be related to _freeze_importlib.You can see my steps on GitHub.The full Terminal output up to the make fail is in a Gist.I fully acknowledge that this is an academic exercise, as El Capitan comes with Python 2.7.10 and you can easily install Python 3.5.2 with the official OS X installer package or via Homebrew.The documentation for Using Python on Unix platforms provides build instructions. The documentation for Using Python on a Macintosh specifically says to use the the OS X installer package.However, it should be possible to build on Mac.Python on a Macintosh running Mac OS X is in principle very similar to Python on any other Unix platform, but there are a number of additional features such as the IDE and the Package Manager that are worth pointing out.At this point, I'm not worried about those additional features. Just curious about why I am getting a make error.
Fixed.In the output of ./configure, I noticed a reference to /Applications/Xcode-beta.app/Contents/Developer/. I installed Xcode 8 (beta) a few days ago. After switching back to the regular Command Line Tools (with Xcode 7.3.1)make succeeded. Not perfectly.I hope I don't need those modules.I've put the full output of ./configure and make in this Gist. I didn't include the output for make install as it was too long and seemed to only repeat the warnings and errors of make.Notes I didn't use --enable-framework or --enable-universalsdk.
I think a better solution is xcode-select --install.If you update Xcode to 8(beta), you have to run xcode-select --install again to install all the build tools with it.I ran into the same issue as yours and I can successfully install python through brew with Xcode8 after running xcode-select --install.I hope it would help others with the same issue here.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/unix.html
https://docs.python.org/3/using/mac.html
