Natural Text
This may seem a naive question but I did not find any answer so far in the web and I do not want to cause any inconsistent behavior in my code. Can I name a variable now in my python code? there is a function named now() that's why I have doubts.Example:Can this be treated as any ordinary variable that stores the returned value by datetime.datetime.now() ? or can it behave differently at any point?
now is not a keyword in python, so you can use it as a variable name.Is there any chance of interfering with datetime.datetime.now()? No.To elaborate: there is no function named now() either; it is tied to the datetime object (it's a class method), and you'll always need datetime.now() to use it. So it's always distinguished from your variable named now.Only if you assign it as follows:Here, the new variable named now equals the datetime.now() function (not the result of the function). But in this case, you're completely responsible yourself for this assignment. Even then, changing now to something else will not change datetime.now.Using, howeverassigns the results of the function call to the variable now (not the function itself), and the function remains as is.What is worth paying attention to, is whether you should overwrite built-in functions. This is the list of built-in functions in Python 3.7.You can assign a value to each of these names, but then you effectively lose that function*, and you may get in trouble later on. For example:So try to avoid that (list = [1,2,3] is another common mistake that should be avoided).But now() is not a built-in function, as explained above.* there are ways to retrieve the original built-in function, even after reassignment, but that's outside the scope of this topic.
Below are the keywords that are used in python, Apart from that you can use any keyword you wantI hope that answer your question
import this saysNamespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those!You can use now as a variable even though there is a function called datetime.datetime.now() because that lives in a different namespace. Every module (like module datetime) is a namespace, and every class or type inside that module (like datetime.datetime) is a separate namespace. Even inside a function you can create a local variable that has the same name as one defined in the surrounding code:though doing that may confuse readers of your code, including yourself.
It will work as Varibaleoutput:type of "Now" variable is datatype of Variable isfrom this we can say now will work as Simple Variable


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html
