Natural Text
I need some concept how to parse a real estate market using Python. I've searched some information about parsing the websites, I even did this in VBA, but I would like to do it in python. This is the site which will be parsed (it's one offer only now, but it will be working on full range of real estate offers, multiple sites from kontrakt.szczecin.pl):http://www.kontrakt.szczecin.pl/mieszkanie-sprzedaz-100m2-335000pln-grudziadzka-pomorzany-szczecin-zachodniopomorskie,351149First of all, program will use 3 pieces of information:1/ The table where is information (Main parameters):Numer oferty 351149, Liczba pokoi 3, Cena 335 000 PLN, Cena za m2 3 350 PLN (Number of offer, Room no, Price, Price by square meter etc). However the quantity of information depends on property offer: sometimes is 14, sometimes is 12, sometimes 16 etc.2/ Description of property in paragraphs (it is another part of program, for now it can be skipped): Sometimes in the table (1/) there is information that there is garage or balcony. But in paragraph there is a sentence that garage is for additional price (which means for me that property doesn't have garage) or balcony is in French type (which is no balcony for me).I managed that program should find the correct word in paragraph (such as garage) and copy text from paragraph with additional text on the left and right side (for instance: 20 letters in both sides, but what if the word is in the first place?)3/ Additional Parameters -Not every offer has it but like this one (http://www.kontrakt.szczecin.pl/mieszkanie-sprzedaz-6664m2-339600pln-potulicka-nowe-miasto-szczecin-zachodniopomorskie,351165) there is information about number of balconies in property. Sometimes there is information about basement too. It should be similar code to the 1/ issue.So I tried something like this, using some internet sources (it is still incomplete):It works, but still is incomplete. I don't continue it right now because there is major flaw. As you see the last print it takes indexes, but not every property will have the same order (because as I mentioned sometimes there is 10 pieces of info, sometimes more, sometimes less). It will be a huge mess in CSV. My VBA program worked in this way:Copy table to Excel (Sheet 1) In the sheet 2 there was parameters that program was looking for (such as Prices)Mechanism in shortcut: Copy parameter from sheet 2 (Price), go to sheet 1 (where is parsed information), find Price string (paste the information from sheet 2: "Price"), go line below, copy price value, go to sheet 2, find Price, go below, paste the price value. And so on.Looking for help with concept and coding also.EDIT:PART 1 and PART 2 is ready. But I have big issues with PART 3. Here is the code:
This code snippet will parse the quick summary table of the property url and saves it in csv file:The result is in data.csv, screenshot from my LibreOffice:For having the table transposed, you can use this code:The result will be in csv file like this (the values not present will be substituted with '-'):


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#zip
