Natural Text
I'm launching a subprocess with the following command:However, when I try to kill using:or The command keeps running in the background, so I was wondering how can I actually terminate the process. Note that when I run the command with:It does terminate successfully when issuing the p.terminate().
Use a process group so as to enable sending a signal to all the process in the groups. For that, you should attach a session id to the parent process of the spawned/child processes, which is a shell in your case. This will make it the group leader of the processes. So now, when a signal is sent to the process group leader, it's transmitted to all of the child processes of this group.Here's the code:
p.kill() ends up killing the shell process and cmd is still running.I found a convenient fix this by:This will cause cmd to inherit the shell process, instead of having the shell launch a child process, which does not get killed.  p.pid will be the id of your cmd process then.p.kill() should work.I don't know what effect this will have on your pipe though.
If you can use psutil, then this works perfectly:
I could do it using it killed the cmd.exe and the program that i gave the command for.(On Windows)
When shell=True the shell is the child process, and the commands are its children. So any SIGTERM or SIGKILL will kill the shell but not its child processes, and I don't remember a good way to do it. The best way I can think of is to use shell=False, otherwise when you kill the parent shell process, it will leave a defunct shell process.
None of this answers worked for me so Im leaving the code that did work. In my case even after killing the process with .kill() and getting a .poll() return code the process didn't terminate. Following the subprocess.Popen documentation:"...in order to cleanup properly a well-behaved application should kill the child process and finish communication..."In my case I was missing the proc.communicate() after calling proc.kill(). This cleans the process stdin, stdout ... and does terminate the process.
As Sai said, the shell is the child, so signals are intercepted by it -- best way I've found is to use shell=False and use shlex to split the command line:Then p.kill() and p.terminate() should work how you expect.
what i feel like we could use:this will not kill all your task but the process with the p.pid
I know this is an old question but this may help someone looking for a different method. This is what I use on windows to kill processes that I've called.     /IM is the image name, you can also do /PID if you want. /T kills the process as well as the child processes. /F force terminates it. si, as I have it set, is how you do this without showing a CMD window. This code is used in python 3.
Send the signal to all the processes in group


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html
