Natural Text
I'm new to Django and have been playing with logging.  It seems to me that the following  statements are essentially equivalent:Is there any difference?  Personally, I've always loved being able to use the Python-style formatting anywhere and I'm inclined to stick with that method.  There's a lot more to Python formatting so it seems much more powerful.  Why does Django give us the choice?  Is there any advantage to using C-style?
The multi-argument style delays the moment of formatting. This gives other parts of the logging module a chance to operate on those arguments  before it is ultimately formatted or even just choose to ignore the call.As Charles Duffy points out, the very first step in the logging flow diagram is to check if the logger is enabled for the level of the call. If the logging level is not enabled, no LogRecord is even created. So delayed formatting saves your program compute cycles in these situations.Another possible use for this delay is that s can process the arguments before they get formatted:logsNotice that the arguments  and  got capitalized and spaced by the . If  merely accepted pre-formatted strings, you wouldn't be able to do that (without forcing the user to do the work of  before calling ).Filters can also used to (surprise!) filter out records before they get emitted (by returning  instead of ). Delayed formatting allows s to examine and possibly filter out records based on the argument values. So string formatting may be avoided entirely when not needed.
This is not really about string formatting, but about passing arguments to a method.The method , as its related methods , , , etc., takes the following arguments:That means  is a required positional argument. In your first example you pass only one single argument:In your other example you're passing two arguments:In the first example you're manually doing the work that the method could do for you.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logging.Logger.debug
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging-cookbook.html#formatting-styles
