Natural Text
I can add additional quotes to the beginning of a triple-quoted string, but not to the end. Why is that? This block of code:Produces this output:Yet this code block doesn't work:It produces this error:I don't ever need to use a quadruple-quote string, but I'm curious why Python won't let me do it. Can anyone help me understand?
You can't use  anywhere in the value of a triple-quoted string. Not at the start, and not at the end.That's because, after the first three  opening characters denoting the start of such a string, another sequence of  is always going to be the end of the string. Your fourth  lies outside of the string object you created, and a single  without a closing  is not a valid string.Python has no other method of knowing when such a string ends. You can't arbitrarily extend the string 'inwards' with additional  characters before the final , because that'd be indistinguishable from the valid and legal*:If you must include a  before the closing , escape it. You can do so by preceding it with a backslash:Note that there is no such thing as a quadruple-quote string. Python doesn't let you combine  quotes into longer sequences arbitrarily. Only  and  syntax exists (using  or ). The rules for a triple-quoted string differ from a single-quoted string; newlines are allowed in the former, not in the latter.See the String and Bytes literals section of the reference documentation for more details, which defines the grammar as:and explicitly mentions:In triple-quoted literals, unescaped newlines and quotes are allowed (and are retained), except that three unescaped quotes in a row terminate the literal. (A “quote” is the character used to open the literal, i.e. either  or .)(bold emphasis mine).* The expression is legal because it consists of two string literals, one with  quoting, the next with  quoting. Consecutive string literals are automatically concatenated, just like they would in C. See String literal concatenation.
It's parsed as  ( first by the maximal munch rule). You can escape the first of the four quotes to fix this.
A triple-quoted string literal ends on a series of 3 unescaped matching quotation marks.When a string literal starts with 4 quotes, the first 3 begin a triple-quoted string literal, and the next quote is just part of the string, since there would have to be three quotes in a row to end the string.When you try to end a string literal with 4 quotes, the first three end the string literal and the 4th begins a new one. The new string literal doesn't have an ending quotation mark, making it a syntax error.
You get an error because you haven't closed a second set of quotes.At the beginning of the string, you have four quotes. Three of these open the string. The next quote is included in the string, because there aren't another two quotes following it.At the end of the string, you have four quotes. The first three of these end the string. The fourth opens a new single-quoted string. You don't close that string by the end of the line, so you get an error.(It isn't an error, in fact, to have two string literals right next to them like that. Python will concatenate them at compile time.)I don't ever need to use a quadruple-quote string, but I'm curious why Python won't let me do it.Because quadruple-quoted strings aren't a thing. Python doesn't let you do it because it wasn't designed to do it. You can have single-quoted strings, and you can have triple-quoted strings. Any other number of quotes is right out.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#string-and-bytes-literals
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#string-literal-concatenation
