Natural Text
I have found a way to list all the alt codes but I want to put them in atable so it looks something like this. This is what I have tried:This code will print all the alt codes.To get it into a table I tried this. (It has a time delay)I have run out of ideas, can you help please?(This is the first time i've asked a question on here.)
You cannot print characters with such low codes on a 21st century system. The characters in the image are those that appeared on old MS-DOS systems (according to Wikipedia: Code Page 437). However, modern systems work with Unicode fonts, and the codes below 32 () are control codes, reserved for special purposes. The code , for example, inserts a Tab, and  puts the text cursor on a new line.(This was also the case on those old systems but you could circumvent this by writing immediately into the video buffer. Nowadays, that is no longer an option on most computers.)To get the modern equivalent of the old characters, you need a lookup list that translates them. I copied mine from the wiki page linked to above. Note that there is no official representation of the code ; I changed it to a space. This is only for the control codes below 32. There are a few codes above 126 that also may not show "correctly" (as in "not as on antique computers" 😄), but you can look them up on the wiki page.To correctly align one- and two-digit numbers, use  formatting. Aligning can be done with functions such as  and ; but, coming from a C background, I prefer what the documentation calls "Old style formatting" (https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#old-string-formatting).This produces the following table:
You can try to use the pyplot table method: I have modified and extended your example code so that it looks like:    import matplotlib.pyplot as pltThe result looks like:png file of the table saved with matplotlibI did not succeed to make the characters with alt-code starting from 0 visible in the table (only in the console).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#old-string-formatting
