Natural Text
Python is going to call a subprocess, the user either requested that subprocesses stdout is to go to a file (or back-holed to os.devnull), or the subprocesses output is to be passed though "in real time".My current best guess as how to do this would seemingly work:Let  be valid input for Let  be a Boolean indicator, true indicating use  for logging or false to passthough to stdout.In tinkering/testing this appears to be the right value, which I have assumed work well with subprocess.call. However, and unsurprisingly I get the following exception:So  is not a context, it has no ; GoalsNot open a file at all if the user does not want logging.Use contexts (as provided by the stdlib), (Preference; I can't imagine doing the file open/close operations manually being any cleaner.)Not need a try/catch (Preference to avoid further nesting)Only have a single call to  (Non duplicated line)So, how could this behavior be achieved? Or what would you suggest doing instead/alternatively?
You could create a "no-op" context manager:When logging is , the conditional expression returns a file object. When  is False, it returns a  context manager (so it can be used in the ), which sets  to  but doesn't do anything special upon exit. Per the docs, when , ... no redirection will occur; the child’s file handles will be inherited from the parent.Usually the parent's stdout would equal . However, it is possible to redirect  somewhere else, either explicitly (e.g. ) or indirectly, such as by using module that redirects . The  module from the standard library redirects , for example. In such cases  might be useful for directing stdout to the parent's stdout, which may be different than . If this corner case does not affect you, then Padraic Cunningham's solution is simpler:
Either set  to  or a  based on logging being True or False, there is no need to overcomplicate it, you only have one condition or the other  will either be True or False, there is nothing wrong with opening a file not using , there are times when using  does not fit.To do what you wanted in your question you can do the following, you don't need anything bar :The file will only be created if logging is True.
As of Python 3.3, tou can define a no-op context manager using :


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/contextlib.html#contextlib.ExitStack
