Natural Text
Good morning everyone!I am new to programming and am learning python. I am trying to create a function that converts each individual char in string into each corresponding individuals ints and displays them one after another. The first error it generates is "c is not defined".the idea is that encode takes in a parameter secret message. It then iterates through each char in c and converts each char from a string to an int. Then it returns the entire message in ints.I'm also not sure how to get each char to appear in int_message. As of now, it looks like it will add all the ints together. I want it to simply place them together (like a string). Do I need to convert it back to a string after I get the int values then concatenate?  
This should do what you want:Or this:
Here is an exapmle of how to do this, I would suggest not returning the coded message as a  but you should turn the message into a  to get the individual characters, return it as a  but leave spaces to separate the code or you will have one long number you cant interpret back, then when you decode a message you can enter it as  and then split this and decode the individual  
I don't know why your getting an error about c not being defined, but there are just a couple of modifications that you need to make to your code.You need to start out by setting the message equal to an empty string before you start adding values to it. This is because your not allowed to add values to a variable that does not exist.Use  instead of .Before adding ord(c) to the message, it needs to be converted to a string. This is because adding two integers together will perform arithmetic but adding two strings together will smush them (concatenate them) together.From here, we just need to get to convert everything to binary. We can't convert a string directly to binary, so we convert to an integer first, and then to binary. The int and bin function can be used for this.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#int
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#bin
