Natural Text
Is there a faster way to write this, the function takes a list and a value to find the pairs of numeric values in that list that sum to N without duplicates I tried to make it faster by using sets instead of using the list itself (however I used count() which I know is is linear time) any suggestions I know there is probably a way
Your approach is quite good, it just needs a few tweaks to make it more efficient.  is convenient, but it's not really suitable for this task because it produces so many unwanted pairs. It's ok if the input list is small, but it's too slow if the input list is large.We can avoid producing duplicates by looping over the numbers in order, stopping when , after using a set to get rid of dupes.Note that the original  is not modified. The assignment in this function creates a new local . If you do actually want  in the output, just change the  condition.Here's a slightly more compact version.It's possible to condense this further, eg using , but it will be harder to read and there won't be any improvement in efficiency.
Try this, running time O(nlogn):It is called the  and it works as follows. First of all, sort the array. This imposes a minimum running time of O(nlogn). Then set two pointers, one pointing at the start of the array  and other pointing at its last element  (pointers name are for left and right). Now, look at the list. If the sum of the values returned at position l and r is lower than the value we are looking for, then we need to increment . If it's greater, we need to decrement .If  than we can increment/decrement both  or  since in any   case we want to skip the combination of values  as we don't want duplicates.
Timings: this is actually slower then the other 2 solutions. Due to the amount of combinations produced but not actually needed it gets worse the bigger the lists are. You can use itertools.combinations to produce the 2-tuple-combinations for you. Put them into a set if they match your , then return as set/list: Output:Fun little thing, with some sorting overhead you can get all at once:Output:And then just access the one you need via: 
Have another solution, it's alot faster then the one I just wrote, not as fast as @PM 2Ring's answer:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html#itertools.combinations
