Natural Text
So, I don't really know how to formulate this correctly but I'll do my best.I am writing a game engine (not really for anything, I am trying a lot of ways to get certain things working to practice with ways of programming). And for this I want scripting. And I know how to add scripts from within Java but I have seen game engines that use multiple languages.So what I want is to add python scripts that are run from with the Java process and can interact with Java object.Like this Java Object that has some parameters (just an example)With the python script being thisorI just have no way how to implement this. If this question has already been asked than please show me.  is my best shot for this than that's fine. In that case I just want to know how to share those parameters.Also, if another language (for example; LUA) is better for something like this then that's also fine. I am just completely blank on this subject.
So actually this is quite simple to do with Java having this built in from the box.Java has this thing that is called 'ScriptEngineManager'. To use it you just do the following:Now there are a few ways to runa script. Simple call the  method. You can give this either a String or a Reader and this way it will run the script.Now to make it have some variables simply use the  method. You need to give this two parameters; a String and an Object.For example:The onlt thing to keep in mind is that this script manager does not have built in python support. You need to either create your own ScriptEngine for this or use third party software. I found jython and this seems to be working prety well. If you download the standalone jar and put that in your classpath it works. No need for any function calling.Now in the Script you can call any public member of entity. All the objects, values and those sub-objects get passed through to the script.My end-code:Entity classI hope I helped anyone with this. It was pretty fun tinkering with all of this.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/extending/embedding.html
