Natural Text
I would like to know how to put a time delay in a Python script.
Here is another example where something is run approximately once a minute:
You can use the  function in the time module. It can take a float argument for sub-second resolution.Read more here.
Please read this, which can help you further:Try the sleep function in the time module.And put this in a  loop and a statement will only execute on the  minute...  That allows you to run a statement at predefined intervals  regardless of how long the command takes (as long as it takes less than   a minute or 5 or 60 or whatever you set it to)  For example, I wanted to   run a ping once a minute.  If I just  or    even, the ping will not always take the same amount of time.  Here's the   code :)The  just pulls the seconds out of the 's return   value.The great thing about  is that it supports floating point numbers!More information
How can I make a time delay in Python?In a single thread I suggest the sleep function:This function actually suspends the processing of the thread in which it is called by the operating system, allowing other threads and processes to execute while it sleeps.Use it for that purpose, or simply to delay a function from executing. For example:"hooray!" is printed 3 seconds after I hit Enter.Example using  with multiple threads and processesAgain,  suspends your thread - it uses next to zero processing power.To demonstrate, create a script like this (I first attempted this in an interactive Python 3.5 shell, but sub-processes can't find the  function for some reason):Example output from this script:MultithreadingYou can trigger a function to be called at a later time in a separate thread with the  threading object:The blank line illustrates that the function printed to my standard out and I had to hit Enter to ensure I was on a prompt.The upside of this method is that while the  thread was waiting, I was able to do other things, in this case, hitting Enter one time - before the function executed (see the first empty prompt).There isn't a respective object in the multiprocessing library. You can create one, but it probably doesn't exist for a reason. A sub-thread makes a lot more sense for a simple timer than a whole new sub-process.
A bit of fun with a sleepy generator.The question is about time delay. It can be fixed time, but in some cases we might need a delay measured since last time. Here is one possible solution:Delay measured since last time (waking up regularly)The situation can be, we want to do something as regularly as possible and we do not want to bother with all the ,  stuff all around our code.Buzzer generatorThe following code (sleepy.py) defines a  generator:Invoking regular buzzergenAnd running it we see:We can also use it directly in a loop:And running it we might see:As we see, this buzzer is not too rigid and allow us to catch up with regular sleepy intervals even if we oversleep and get out of regular schedule.
The tkinter library in the Python standard library is an interactive tool which you can import. Basically, you can create buttons and boxes and popups and stuff that appear as windows which you manipulate with code.If you use tkinter, DO NOT USE  because it will muck up your program. This happened to me. Instead, use  and replace the values for however many seconds, with a milliseconds. E.g,  is equivalent to  in tkinter.Otherwise, , which many answers have pointed out, which is the way to go.
Delays are done with the time library, specifically the  function.To just make it wait for a second:This works because by doing:You extract the sleep function only from the time library, which means you can just call it with:Rather than having to type outWhich is awkwardly long to type.With this method, you wouldn't get access to the other features of the time library and you can't have a variable called . But you could create a variable called .Doing  is great if you just want certain parts of a module.You could equally do it as:and you would have access to the other features of the time library like  as long as you type , but you couldn't create the variable time because it would overwrite the import. A solution to this to dowhich would allow you to reference the time library as , allowing you to do:This works on any library.
There are 5 methods which I know: , , matplotlib's , , and . example (do not use if using Tkinter): example (not recommended if you are not using the pygame window, but you could exit the window instantly):matplotlib's function  example (not recommended if you are not using the graph, but you could exit the graph instantly):The  method (best with Tkinter):Finally, the  method (selenium):
The best way to delay time in Python is to use the  library. Like this:Just replace 10 with the amount of seconds you want to delay. You can use formats like '10.1', '5.07', etc.It is not recommended to use this with Tkinter
Delays can be implemented by using three methods.Let's start with the easiest one:The second method to delay would be using the implicit wait method:The third method is more useful when you have to wait until a particular action is completed or until an element is found:
Simple example:
asyncio.sleepNotice in recent python versions (python 3.4 or higher) you can use asyncio.sleep. It's related to asynchronous programming and asyncio. Check out next example:We may think it will "sleep" for 2 seconds for first method and then 3 seconds in the second method, total of 5 seconds running time of this code. But.. it will print:Recommend to read asyncio official documentation for more details
This is an easy example of a time delay:Another, in Tkinter:
you can use sleep method in time package to make delay in python program execution
While everyone else has suggested the de facto  module, I thought I'd share a different method using 's  function, .An exampleTypically this is used to prevent the plot from disappearing as soon as it is plotted or to make crude animations.This would save you an  if you already have  imported.
If you would like to put a time delay in Python script:Use  or  like this:          However, if you want to delay the execution of a function do this:Use  like this:Outputs:           Why use the later approach?Does not stops execution of the whole script. (except for the function you pass it)After starting the timer you can also stop it by doing .
I have been looking a the previous answers and I would simply like to build on them.I have often wanted to create a typing effect, here is how you can do this (Python 3):And in Python 2:I hope this has helped you in some way.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/time.html#time.sleep
https://docs.python.org/3/library/threading.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/multiprocessing.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html
