Natural Text
I am attempting to get user statistics from the Fortnite tracker api.  I have an api key and am using the correct url as indicated in the documentationTemplate url:Desired url:If I use this link in browser I get  (as I have not passed the API key) so the link should be correct.  Also if I do not pass the api key with urllib then I still get a 403 error.I have checked out how to pass a header in a request: How do I set headers using python's urllib?and so far have this code:When run I get this error:403 checks out as:HTTP 403 is a standard HTTP status code communicated to clients by an HTTP server to indicate that the server understood the request, but will not fulfill it. There are a number of sub-status error codes that provide a more specific reason for responding with the 403 status code. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_403The response is the same if I don't pass the api key in the header.I can only think of three reasons this code is not working:I have passed the wrong header name (i.e. it's not )My code is incorrect and I am not actually passing a header to the serverI have been bannedMy problem is that I think my code is correct:From the documentation:I have passed the  and I have passed the  (wihout confusing with the  arguement).  The api documentation also mentions it should be passed in the headers.I am also quite sure I need to use the  as it is shown in the api documentation:Also in this question (using Ruby):Or I have been banned (this is possible although I got the key 15 minutes ago) is there a way to check?  Would this error be returned?What is preventing me from getting the user statistics?
Try using requests, a pythonic, fast and widely used module.If it doesn't work you can  visit the url with your browser, then check the requests:in Firefox press Cntrl+Shift+E, in Chrome Cntrl+E (or Inspect with Cntrl+Shift+I and then go to Network). Press on "https://api.fortnitetracker.com/v1/profile/pc/xantium0" and change the headers. On Firefox there's the button Modify and resend. Check the response and eventually, try to change the header api key name.Hope this helps, let me know.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/urllib.request.html#urllib.request.Request
