Natural Text
I'm trying to check if a string only contains letters, not digits or symbols.For example:
Simple: is only true if all characters in the string are letters:Return true if all characters in the string are alphabetic and there is at least one character, false otherwise.Demo:
The  function works.  ie.
For people finding this question via Google who might want to know if a string contains only a subset of all letters, I recommend using regexes:
The  function will work for you. See http://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/string_isalpha.htm
Looks like people are saying to use .This is the one line function to check if all characters are letters. accepts an iterable of booleans, and returns  iff all of the booleans are . More generally,  returns  if the objects in your iterable would be considered . These would be considered 0Empty data structures (ie: ). (duh)
Actually, we're now in globalized world of 21st century and people no longer communicate using ASCII only so when anwering question about "is it letters only" you need to take into account letters from non-ASCII alphabets as well. Python has a pretty cool unicodedata library which among other things allows categorization of Unicode characters:The categories and their abbreviations are defined in the Unicode standard. From here you can quite easily you can come up with a function like this:And then:As you can see the whitelisted categories can be quite easily controlled by the tuple inside the function. See this article for a more detailed discussion.
(1) Use str.isalpha() when you print the string.(2) Please check below program for your reference:-Note:- I checked above example in Ubuntu.
You can leverage regular expressions.The  method will return a  object if a match is found. Otherwise it will return .An easier approach is to use the  method returns true if there is at least 1 character in the string and if all the characters in the string are alphabets.
A pretty simple solution I came up with: (Python 3)You can add a space in the string you are checking against if you want spaces to be allowed.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/unicodedata.html
