Natural Text
I have data sets of 5000+ lines and varying lengths In terms of elements existing in any given line of data. I have stored each line of data as a  where each element is stored as an  (i.e. some lines may have 5 indices where others may have 20). Index 2 is always the elapsed time for that line of data.My script currently  through the data set using a  loop as a means to structure the data. See below:Where the lines (from the data set) the script iterates through look something likeWhich are then put into lists likeI would like to iteratively subtract the initial time (non-zero) from the time present in any given line. For example, I would like to do  and  the elapsed time for each line. Perhaps this can be done before the data structure is created, I am not sure. Please help!Thanks 
You could do it directly while running the loop:Also it is perhaps worth pointing out that your line of codeis currently not doing anything, because the return value from the  method is not being assigned to anything.
You could do something like thisIt will print the elapsed time every iteration. I think this is what you're asking for help with
First off you haven't stored each line as a list. This is just semantics but you seem to have stored your lines in a text file. You're reading lines from a text file, then reading the lines converting them into strings and then splitting them into lists. Remember, semantics are important when programming.If we're to improve your code as well based on the sample you've provided I would do the following:Now, I removed a lot of what seems like cruft for me based on what you actually want to do, which is to calculate a time based on a timestamp.You don't need the list with an empty string to confirm that there's an existing string (be careful of the caveats, see something like this)You're not storing the return value from the .join function, it's completely superfluoustrash is not used eitherNeither is columnMaybe you're leaving out parts of the code but this is what I could understand from your description. Now, I'm not sure why you want to compare what I call start to the the timestamp you have in the manner you do. It will always be a negative value since I presume the file is created prior to the execution of the program, I expect you actually want print(start - int(entries[2])) but that's just a guess.If what you're actually looking for is to time your functions I'd recommend to look into https://docs.python.org/3/library/timeit.html for a start.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/timeit.html
