Natural Text
I don't understand why this doesn't work. I want to print the highest negative value from a series of user-inputted negative ints. E.g., user inputs: -1, -5, -3, program returns -1. But my program (below) is returning -5. Why is this? Is my code totally messed up? I know I can use a list and max way around it but I don't want to over-complicate the program.
Your operator should be greater than , not less than  in order to take the maximum value. Initializing to  ensures the first negative value passes the condition:You can drop the  variable by using a  instead.I know I can use a list and max way around it but I don't want to  over-complicate the program.You can do this in a single line using  with your sentinel  to call  repeatedly, collecting an iterable of negative numbers.  converts the iterable items to ints while  returns the maximum:Demo:
Well the highest negative value is the same as the maximum value.Now your loop invariant should be that  is the thus far observed maximum value. But you actually store the thus far observed minimum value: indeed if the new value is less than, you assign it to .So a quick fix is to change to comparison to . But now the initial maximum will be . We can change that, by setting the initial value to for instance , and if  is , set  to the entered value.
You never compare the inputted value with the largest-negative-value so far. You also set your initial value to zero, which is not a suitable result value. One way to handle these is to replace your lineswithThere are other ways, of course, including setting  to the smallest possible negative number. That would simplify your comparisons, since in my code above there is a check just for  never being set before.Note that if there is no negative number input at all, the result is zero. That may or may not be what you want.
Just use inbuilt  function to find maximum number


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#iter
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#map
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#max
