Natural Text
Good day :)So I recently learned about I/O in codeacademy. It just barely teach about open,close,read,write and so on.I love to wander in those programming competition, where the website give you the challenge, you create the source code, then you download the input and finally upload the source code with the output. (I'm talking about Google Jam)So here's the point.I usually notice there are 3 kind of inputThen we have this kindAnd finally. So the question isLet say there are three input fileInput #1Input #2Input #3For each input, how to process it so my interpreter will print thisTo put in another word (Sorry if my word choice are bad, I just tried to make it as clear as possible): Let's say you get input #1, how do you process it with python so you can get the above result printed in the interpreter, and so on with input #2 and input #3PS: I will be happy, if you give short explanation.PPS: Since I just understand the I/O stuff from codeacademy, I wish you will use open(fileinput,"r") to take input instead of import fileinput.PPPS: Thank you so much for answering this question.
For #1For #2For #3Explanation:  splits all characters in one string into a list of characters. seperates the input into list, breaking it into a new element whenever it encounters a space. Same for In case you want the output  use,  instead of . Check the docs for the documentation of str.joinAt OP's request, modification. 
You can read from file one byte/char at the time by passing 1 to  function(). So you might write code like this:This code consumes files with formats like you posted and others combinations, for instance, a file containingwill ouput
OK , I will walk you through how you can load each of these input files into some meaningful representation (which is, as you requested, a variable with an integer and a variable with a list).In all three cases, we will open the file and read line by line using a piece of code like this:Be careful that the line variable contains the full line including the "\n" ending character.Now, let's get to each of the cases. Let me assume that we want to parse the data storing it into a variable  (for the integer) and  for the list#2Let me start with the second, which is slightly easier:#1#3For this case, let me assume that you positively responded my question and the integer is actually the number of items in the list. If not, I will change my answer accordingly.


Answer URL
