Natural Text
I am using  scripts but found this error in server log while doing ,​Here , function returns  .Before posting this question I have referred this of question os SO.UPDATESFollowing line is hurting JSON encoder,I got a temporary fix for itBut I am not sure is it correct way to do it.
The error is because there is some non-ascii character in the dictionary and it can't be encoded/decoded. One simple way to avoid this error is to encode such strings with  function as follows (if  is the string with non-ascii character):
Try the below code snippet:
I switched this simply by defining a different codec package in the  command
Your string has a non ascii character encoded in it.Not being able to decode with utf-8 may happen if you've needed to use other encodings in your code. For example:In this case, the encoding is windows-1252 so you have to do:Now that you have unicode, you can safely encode into utf-8.
Set default encoder at the top of your code
Inspired by aaronpenne and Soumyaansh
As of 2018-05 this is handled directly with , at least for Python 3. I'm using the below snippet after getting  and  type errors. Adding  fixed it for me.
Following line is hurting JSON encoder,I got a temporary fix for itMarking this as correct as a temporary fix (Not sure so).
After trying all the aforementioned workarounds, if it still throws the same error, you can try exporting the file as CSV (a second time if you already have).Especially if you're using scikit learn, it is best to import the dataset as a CSV file.I spent hours together, whereas the solution was this simple. Export the file as a CSV to the directory where Anaconda or your classifier tools are installed and try.
If the above methods are not working for you, you may want to look into changing the encoding of the csv file itself.Using Excel:Using Notepad:By doing this, you should be able to import csv files without encountering the UnicodeCodeError.
On read csv I added an encoding method
Generally speaking, Python throws such an error when an illegal type of object is tried to be read as a file.e.g. the second line will throw the above error: UnicodeDecodeError: 'utf-8' codec can't decode byte 0x80 in position 0: invalid start bytePossible reading .npy in a similar manner will also throw this kind of error 
Just in my case, if I save the xslx excel file as a CSV(Comma delimited), the error will present. However, when I save is as CSV(MS-DOS), the error won't come. 
HitHere, you should load the "GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin.gz" file at first then extract it by this command in Ubuntu: gunzip -k GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin.gz. [ manually extracting is never recommended].secondly, you should apply these commands in python 3:I hope it will be useful.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/codecs.html#codecs.decode
