Natural Text
Is there a way to generate random letters in Python (like random.randint but for letters)? The range functionality of random.randint would be nice but having a generator that just outputs a random letter would be better than nothing.
Simple:string.ascii_letters returns a string containing the lower case and upper case letters according to the current locale.random.choice returns a single, random element from a sequence.

to generate y number of random characters 

Another way, for completeness:Use the fact that ascii 'a' is 97, and there are 26 letters in the alphabet.When determining the upper and lower bound of the random.randrange() function call, remember that random.randrange() is exclusive on its upper bound, meaning it will only ever generate an integer up to 1 unit less that the provided value.


You can just make a list:
You can use this to get one or more random letter(s)
You can get random strings like this:

All previous answers are correct, if you are looking for random characters of various types (i.e. alphanumeric and special characters) then here is an script that I created to demonstrate various types of creating random functions, it has three functions one for numbers, alpha- characters and special characters. The script simply generates passwords and is just an example to demonstrate various ways of generating random characters. Result:
You can use
well, this is my answer! It works well. Just put the number of random letters you want in 'number'... (Python 3)

My overly complicated piece of code:It basically generates a random number out of 26 and then converts into its corresponding letter. This could defiantly be improved but I am only a beginner and I am proud of this piece of code.
Maybe this can help you:
Place a python on the keyboard and let him roll over the letters until you find your preferd random combo                  Just kidding!


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#string.ascii_letters
