Natural Text
I'm writing to many files in a threaded app and I'm creating one handler per file. I have HandlerFactory class that manages the distribution of these handlers. What I'd like to do is thatthread A requests and gets foo.txt's file handle from the HandlerFactory classthread B requests foo.txt's file handlerhandler class recognizes that this file handle has been checked outhandler class puts thread A to sleepthread B closes file handle using a wrapper method from HandlerFactoryHandlerFactory notifies sleeping threadsthread B wakes and successfully gets foo.txt's file handleThis is what I have so far, I believe this covers the sleeping and handler retrieval successfully, but I am unsure how to wake up all threads, or even better wake up a specific thread.
What you're looking for is known as a condition variable.Condition VariablesHere is the Python 2 library reference.For Python 3 it can be found here
Looks like you want a  threading.Semaphore associated with each handler (other synchronization objects like Events and Conditions are also possible, but a Semaphore seems simplest for your needs).  (Specifically, use a BoundedSemaphore: for your use case, that will raise an exception immediately for programming errors that erroneously release the semaphone more times than they acquire it -- and that's exactly the reason for being of the bounded version of semaphones;-).Initialize each semaphore to a value of 1 when you build it (so that means the handler is available).  Each using-thread calls acquire on the semaphore to get the handler (that may block it), and release on it when it's done with the handler (that will unblock exactly one of the waiting threads).  That's simpler than the acquire/wait/notify/release lifecycle of a Condition, and more future-proof too, since as the docs for Condition say:The current implementation wakes up  exactly one thread, if any are  waiting. However, it’s not safe to  rely on this behavior. A future,  optimized implementation may  occasionally wake up more than one  thread.while with a Semaphore you're playing it safe (the semantics whereof are safe to rely on: if a semaphore is initialized to N, there are at all times between 0 and N-1 [[included]] threads that have successfully acquired the semaphore and not yet released it).
You do realize that Python has a giant lock, so that most of the benefits of multi-threading you do not get, right?Unless there is some reason for the master thread to do something with the results of each worker, you may wish to consider just forking off another process for each request. You won't have to deal with locking issues then. Have the children do what they need to do, then die. If they do need to communicate back, do it over a pipe, with XMLRPC, or through a sqlite database (which is threadsafe).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/threading.html#condition-objects
