Natural Text
I was trying to come up with a function that would read an .csv archive and from there I could get for example, grades for students tests, example below:   I managed to split the lines on the , part but I end up with somewhat a matrix:   How do I go from one list to the other and manage to get the grades within them?This is the code I got so far:Where do I go from here?
A simple for will do it, i.e.:DEMOPS: You may want to cast g1 and g2 to a float - float(nota[1])- if  you need to perform math operations.
Since you're working with a csv file, you may want to look at the csv module in Python. That module has many convenient options and forms in which the data is read. Following is an example of csv.DictReader reading and usage,Here the data is read as a list of dictionaries - each element in the list is a dictionary representing a single row of your dataset. The dictionary keys are names of your headers (NOME, G1) and values are the corresponding values for that row. That particular form can be useful in some situations. Here in the first part of the program the data is printed with keys and values, one row per line. The thing to note is that dictionaries are unordered - to ensure printing in some specific order we need to traverse the dictionary "manually". I used join simply to demonstrate an alternative to format (which is actually more powerful) or just typing everything with spaces in between. Second usage example prints names and the second grade as a table with proper headers. Third calculates the average and prints it as a table.For me this approach proved very useful when dealing with datasets with several thousands entries that have many columns - headers - that I want to study separately (thus I don't mind them not being in order). To get an ordered dictionary you can use OrderedDict or consider other available datastructures. I also use Python 2.7, but since you tagged the question as 3.X, the links point to 3.X documentation.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.OrderedDict
