Natural Text
I have a string S="Test" in Python. I want to encode the string into CP1256, ISO-8859-1, ISO-8859-2, ISO-8859-6, ISO-8859-15 and Window-1252 formats. How can I do the encoding of the string into the mentioned formats?
I don't know why Slava Bacherikov deleted his answer, but it was the right answer, so I'll repeat it with more detail.str.encode is exactly what you want:Return an encoded version of the string as a bytes object. Default encoding is 'utf-8'. errors may be given to set a different error handling scheme. The default for errors is 'strict', meaning that encoding errors raise a UnicodeError. Other possible values are 'ignore', 'replace', 'xmlcharrefreplace', 'backslashreplace' and any other name registered via codecs.register_error(), see section Codec Base Classes. For a list of possible encodings, see section Standard Encodings.If you follow that link to Standard Encodings, you'll see a nice table that shows you the names to use for each of these (you can use either the main codec name, or any of the aliases). So:While you could use codecs.encode as the other answers suggest, there's really no good reason to do so, and one good reason not to: str.encode enforces the fact that you're calling it on a str object, and using a codec that translates str to bytes; you'll get an exception if you accidentally use it on an already-encoded bytes or a list or something.All of the above is assuming you're using Python 3. If you're using Python 2, a str is already encoded. So, if you can start with a unicode object, like u"Test" instead of "Test", do that; if not, you will want to decode it first. Unfortunately, Python 2 won't enforce that; if you call str.encode it will actually decode it with sys.getdefaultencoding, which will usually be ASCII, which will lead to silly errors.
its what that codecs  module is for :
Just use the codecs moduleIf you want to first check if python is aware of a certain encoding format just use


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str.encode
https://docs.python.org/3/library/codecs.html#codecs.encode
