Natural Text
I have this python script where I need to run gdal_retile.pybut I get an exception on this line:The end='' is invalid syntax. I am curious as to why, and what the author probably meant to do. I'm new to python if you haven't already guessed.I think the root cause of the problem is that these imports are failingand therefore one must contain this import from __future__ import print_function
Are you sure you are using Python 3.x? The syntax isn't available in Python 2.x because print is still a statement.in Python 2.x is identical toori.e. as a call to print with a tuple as argument.That's obviously bad syntax (literals don't take keyword arguments). In Python 3.x print is an actual function, so it takes keyword arguments, too.The correct idiom in Python 2.x for end=" " is:(note the final comma, this makes it end the line with a space rather than a linebreak)If you want more control over the output, consider using sys.stdout directly. This won't do any special magic with the output.Of course in somewhat recent versions of Python 2.x (2.5 should have it, not sure about 2.4), you can use the __future__ module to enable it in your script file:The same goes with unicode_literals and some other nice things (with_statement, for example). This won't work in really old versions (i.e. created before the feature was introduced) of Python 2.x, though.
How about this:This allows you to use the Python 3.0 style print function without having to hand-edit all occurrences of print :)
In python 2.7 here is how you do it In python 3.x
First of all, you're missing a quote at the beginning but this is probably a copy/paste error.In Python 3.x, the end=' ' part will place a space after the displayed string instead of a newline. To do the same thing in Python 2.x, you'd put a comma at the end:
I think he's using Python 3.0 and you're using Python 2.6.
This is just a version thing. Since Python 3.x the print is actually a function, so it now takes arguments like any normal function.The end=' ' is just to say that you want a space after the end of the statement instead of a new line character. In Python 2.x you would have to do this by placing a comma at the end of the print statement.For example, when in a Python 3.x environment:Will give the following output:Where as:Will give as output:
It looks like you're just missing an opening double-quote.  Try:
I think the author probably meant:He's missing an initial quote after print(.Note that as of Python 3.0, print is a function as opposed to a statement, if you're using older versions of Python the equivalent would be:The end parameter means that the line gets ' ' at the end rather than a newline character. The equivalent in earlier versions of Python is:(thanks Ignacio).
For python 2.7 I had the same issue Just use "from __future__ import print_function" without quotes to resolve this issue.This Ensures Python 2.6 and later Python 2.x can use Python 3.x print function.
Try this one if you are working with python 2.7:
Even I was getting that same error today. And I've experienced an interesting thing.If you're using python 3.x and still getting the error, it might be a reason:You have multiple python versions installed  on same drive. And when  you're presing the f5 button the python shell window (of ver. < 3.x)  pops upI was getting same error today, and noticed that thing. Trust me, when I execute my code from proper shell window (of ver. 3.x), I got satisfactory results
USE :: python3 filename.py I had such error , this occured because i have two versions of python installed on my drive namely python2.7 and python3 .Following was my code :when i run it by the  command python lines.py I got the following errorwhen I run it by the command python3 lines.py I executed successfully
we need to import a header before using end='', as it is not included in the python's normal runtime.it shall work perfectly now


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#print
