Natural Text
I want the X and O animations to switch back and forth upon mouse clicks. The problem is in the function XorO. I don't really understand why, but it will only create Xs when I click it. I think it may have to do with how I wrote the turn variable.  Here is what I have. 
The problem here is that the  object gets created every time you call the  method. This means  is always 1.One way would be to keep track of  from outside and call it with  but the useof global is something one should avoid especially it can get quite messy.I would recommend keeping track of  within an own child class of Tk separate "logic" classI made you an example for the latter:(please note that this example is super sloppy (particularly the variable naming) and should just show you what I meant)EDIT: is basically a way to create one line functions. In this case, I used it to pass arguments through the event function. Because somewhere internally  does something like  so you have no chance to use your own arguments. That's why  is useful here is maybe not that important here since I saw people putting variables in class bodies before and apparently it works just fine, but I personally prefer it to create all the variables of a class in the constructor is like  in other languages a reference to the class or the object of that class (you can actually name it the way you want by naming the first constructor argument, but  is commonly used). It "pulls" the variable in the scope of the class instead of the function. That means the variable exists and can be manipulated as long as the object exists. A function basically loses everything after execution. That was the main problem in your prior code.
I managed to fix it based off a few tweaks from your code. However, I could I make it that if a X is created, an O and X cannot be created on that same tile? Thanks for your help. This is what I have so far. Also, if you have a reason to use the method you used that I was talking about in that comment, I would appreciate it if you would explain why.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/simple_stmts.html?highlight=global#global
