Natural Text
OK, i'm using Python 2.7.3 and here is my code:I'm trying to modify the variable  inside the  function. Here are the things that I've tried:If I put the variable count outside the  function it works fine the first time, but if I try again without restarting python shell, the count (obviously) doesn't restart, so it keeps adding.If I change the  line for  it also works, but the output is (obviously) one. So, my goal here is to get the length of the string using recursion, but I don't know how to keep track of the number of letters. I've searched for information about global variables, but I am still stuck. I don't know if i haven't understood it yet, or if I have a problem in my code. Thanks in advance!
 in  is not a global. It is a scoped variable.You'll need to use Python 3 before you can make that work in this way; you are looking for the  statement added to Python 3.In Python 2, you can work around this limitation by using a mutable (such as a list) for  instead:Now you are no longer altering the  name itself; it remains unchanged, it keeps referring to the same list. All you are doing is altering the first element contained in the  list.An alternative 'spelling' would be to make  a function attribute:Now  is no longer local to ; it has become an attribute on the unchanging  function instead.For your specific problem, you are actually overthinking things. Just have the recursion do the summing:Demo:
I think You can pass count as second argumentthis should work better than muting objects from outer scope such as using mutable objects ( or ) or monkey-patching function itself for example.
You need to make the variable count a function variable likeHowever, I see a few problems with the code.1) If you are trying to find the number of alphabets in a string through recursion, this one will do:But still I would prefer having a single function to do the task, like there will be no leng method at all.2) If your goal is just to find the number of alphabets in a string, I would prefer list comprehensionIf this is anything other than learning purpose, I suggest you to avoid recursion. Because, the solution cannot be used for larger strings(lets say, finding the alphabet count from contents of a file). You might hit the RunTimeError of Maximum Recursion Depth Exceeded.Even though you can work around this through setting the recursion depth through setrecursionlimit function, I suggest you to go for other easy ways. More info on setting the recursionlimit here.
Define it outside all function definitions, if you want to use it as a global variable:or  define it as a function attribute:This has been fixed in py3.x where you can use the  statement:
You don't need count. The below function should work.


Answer URL
