Natural Text
Question: Say I have a list How can I go about removing elements such as  and  and '2:36'? i.e, how can I remove elements of the form  and those with AM/PM on the end?To be honest, I havent tried much, as I am not sure really where to even begin, other than something like:
You can use regular expression  and filter using it.See demo.https://regex101.com/r/HoGZYh/1Output: 
Consider using the built-in  function with a compiled regex.A lambda can also be used for the first argument if, for example, you wanted to avoid compiling a regex, though it is messier.Note that in Python 3,  returns an iterable object instead of a list.The regular expression here works by accepting all strings except . This means all strings except for ones matching , optionally ending in some whitespace followed by AM or PM.
Try this code in pure Python.Firstly it checks the last two chars, if the last two chars equals to 'am' or 'pm', element should be removed from list.Secondly it checks each element if it contains ':', if ':' is found in the element, then it checks the characters before and after ':'. If characters before and after ':' are digits, the element is removed from list. The idea supports number|number:number and number:number|number.output for this example is :['abd', ' the dog', '1234 total', 'etc...']
The regular expression  matches a single digit, then a , followed by two digits. would match any number  of digits  on each side of the . I suggest you play around with it. The documentation is here.Detail:  specifies the end of the string, and  starts looking at the start of the string.
A regex is the easy answer.Here is an alternative with pure Python:Note that there is a side effect of  that serves to filter all digits as well.If there is a possibility of  type numbers:
You don't need regex, try using:Or use a much easier solution with regex:Or a version of non-regex that's also much easier:
Check this implementation.OUTPUT


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html
