Natural Text
Hi there, I'm newbie in , and I am trying to print either  or  if P tag match or contains specific text.I can print the content of the p tag, but just can't output the true or false successful. e.g. TRUE P tag contain "British dishes"Get me those error informations:ResultSet object has no attribute '%s'. You're probably treating a  list of items like a single item. Did you call find_all() when you  meant to call find()?" % key AttributeError: ResultSet object has no  attribute 'find'. You're probably treating a list of items like a  single item. Did you call find_all() when you meant to call find()?This is the text I get back from 'p' [The Ivy welcomes customers without reservations at the central dining bar, where the A La Carte and Set menus are both served, Give a friend or loved one the unique experience of lunch or dinner at one of London’s most renowned restaurants, The Ivy's all-day menu features Ivy classics alongside modern British dishes, served daily from 12 noon until late, At the cocktail bar, Bar Manager Darren Ball’s cocktail lists salutes The Ivy’s history with iconic drinks from The Roaring Twenties and kitsch classics like Pina Coladas and Strawberry Daiquiris., The Ivy welcomes customers without reservations at the central dining bar, where the A La Carte and Table d'hôte menus are both served., To reserve a table, please call 020 7836 4751 or book online here., The Ivy welcomes customers without reservations at the central dining bar, where the A La Carte and Table d'hôte menus are both served, For the latest updates, events and menus from London's favourite restaurants., * Mandatory fields, We’d like to keep in touch with you about all our restaurants with exclusive news and advance booking opportunities. We will contact you about special events, new openings as well as the latest seasonal menus. We will keep your data secure, and of course would never sell or share data. You can change your mind at any time by clicking unsubscribe on any email you receive or by clicking the link on our website. For further detail on our data policy and protection.]
In your example, you need to go through each  tag text with a loop, and make sure your searching for text in one case, which can be lowercase, since  and  won't match. You are also not calling  on the  elements, which won't extract the text from the tag. Fixed code:Which now prints:Alternatively, you can just use the  operator, instead of :Note: Printing  and  is unnecessary when  and  are available. You can just use  and  instead here. You could also wrap the search in function, and simply print out the boolean result:If you want to return combine this all into one result, you could use  here:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#any
