Natural Text
This is the relevant part of the code that I am having issues with. The player.x and player.y are getting "AttributeError: type object 'player' has no attribute 'x'" errors in the debug console. I have a seperate class called "player" and I want to get its x and y coordinate while it is moving around so that the enemy can move toward it. This is the player class beginning part that is also relevant:
Error in your codeYou are declaring the x and y variables of the class player as private instance variables whereas in the enemy class you are accessing those x and y values as global variables.So the work around the problem is.You either declare the x and y values as global variables as below   and access those x and y variables as global ones in the constructor  as given below.or Pass a player instance to the method moveTowardsPlayer() within the  enemy class if you don't want to keep the x and y variables (of player  class) as global/class variables. Code is given below.
Based on the code provided, it looks like you're mixing up a class with an object (instance) of that class. here is a class, of which you could create objects. The  class itself has no class attributes (i.e., variables that are shared by all members of the class); it only has instance attributes (variables unique to individual instances of the class). So the expected use is that you create one or more instances (maybe global to your program) and operate on those.Thus, I think what you need is threefold:To create a  object like so: Add a parameter for that  to your 's initializer, like so:Pass  to the  object you create.(For what it's worth, many people adhere to a convention of making class names capitalized, and instances lowercase. This helps make it the distinction obvious when reading the code—you get something like , and if you ever write , it helps call out that you're talking about a class attribute, not a member variable.)


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#class-objects
