Natural Text
I am currently going through Ryan Mitchell's Web Scraping with Python. In the first chapter, when he talks about handling errors, he says :If the server is not found at all (if say, site was down, or the URL  was mistyped), urlopen returns a None object.So to test this, I created the following snippet. In the second last line of this code, I have intentionally mistyped the URL name (actual URL is http://www.wunderlist.com). I hoped that now I would get None printed on my screen. However, I get a long list of errors. Below I am giving a last part of the error message:Now, if I correct the URL name, but write some nonexistent page in front of the website, for example:Then I get None printed on the screen. I am really confused about this. Can anybody kindly explain me what is actually happening? Thanks in advance. 
I think the problem is you're catching only HTTPError (and returning None). Try to also treat/catch the URLError exception.Replacefrom urllib.error import HTTPErrorwithfrom urllib.error import HTTPError, URLError.Replaceexcept HTTPError:withexcept (HTTPError, URLError):This will give you the behavior that you wanted (returning None in both cases).But I would suggest treating these errors separately (move the first try block to another method, stop scraping on error, etc).
Often, URLError is raised because there is no network connection (no route to the specified server), or the specified server doesn’t exist.'http://www.wunderlst.com' is not exist thats why error raise.check the following link to get more details.https://docs.python.org/3.1/howto/urllib2.html#handling-exceptions
The book/article you're referring to is either wrong or out of date. In the urllib documentation you can readIf the connection cannot be made the IOError exception is raised.If the host name can't be resolved, obviously no connection can be made so an IOError has to be raised according to documentation. URLError is a subclass of IOError in older Pythons, newer versions of urllib don't seem to have the urlopen function from what I can tell from a cursory glance.As mentioned in the comments, I got the library wrong (urllib instead of urllib.request); You'll find a similar line sayingRaises URLError on errors.In there though. Presumably a HTTP error like a 404 isn't considered an error for urlopen, which would be why it doesn't raise an exception if the path is wrong, but does throw an error if the host name can't be resolved.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/urllib.error.html#urllib.error.URLError
