Natural Text
I am not sure what I am doing wrong. I keep getting an invalid syntax error on the line with the for loop.
Whatever it is you are trying to do with that outfile.write line has two main syntax errors that you need to be careful about. First, write is a method, and you are not treating it as such. So you need to use (). Furthermore, remove the :. I am not sure what you are trying to do with those colons and the print statement. But that is not valid syntax. On second inspection, it seems like you are trying to print each i. With the methodology you are using to capture your input by using a comprehension, you cannot print the output like that, as the i is no longer in scope by the time you are printing that i.Furthermore, you will not be able to write a list to a file with the methodology you are using. So, chances are you are looking to write the string representation of those list values. You should use the join method to do this: To explain the join. What this will do is take the list you created and create a string out of your list entries, by separating each entry by a space. So if for example you have a list as: Calling ' '.join() on it, will create a string separated by a space as: So, your final functional code looks like: It is important to note, that a good practice here when dealing with file objects is to use a context manager, which would change your code to look like: The context manager is denoted by using the with statement. Some more suggested reading on file objects can be found in the documentation here.
If your code is the same as you have here, you have two issues:outfile.write() Needs to have parentheses since it is a function call.Your indentation is messed up. To have a for loop, you should have something likeIf you have brackets like you do in your code, you'll have a list comprehension, but the syntax should be like the following:
The first error is with the line for i in range(10)]. It should be for i in range(10).The next errors are occurring on the line directly prior to the for loop:outfile.write[input('Enter a value: ') should be outfile.write(raw_input('Enter a value: ')).[ needed to be (, and raw_input was substituted for input so as to write a string value to the file.Finally, so as to request input 10 times from the user to write each to a new line of the file, outfile's write method needed to be placed in the loopThe final formatted code would look like this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#with
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#methods-of-file-objects
