Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:How can you dynamically create variables via a while loop? [duplicate]                    8 answers                I'm trying to put together a programming project at my university, but I'm stuck. The "math" part I've got covered, but I need help with lists and loops in Python.I'm working with graphs, let me show one example, to make it clearer:3 node graphAs you can see, I have 3 nodes in it and 2 edges, nothing fancy. I need to compute the closest route between each pair of nodes, and I have that covered already. Now I need to put it either in n lists, n elements each, or in a n x n, so either:or a table (or matrix?) like this:table 3x3, where I only really need the part with the white background.When I read data to work on, I put each node into a list, as a new element, so with these 3 steps I gradually get:Is there any way, to create empty lists out of elemnts of lw? I would really like to name them like dis_a, dis_b, dis_c etc. I tried to do it with a dictionary, but then I couldn't manipulate with those lists, like I usually do. And truth be told, I'd much prefer the solution using lists, as I already have a latter part of the program written for this.EDIT:Ok, so one of you asked for input/output to make my question clearer. Mmy input is:my desired output is:or something like that (lists that can be easly identified with the nodes, that I have listed in lw)EDIT2:Ok, so now I have a number of lists created like this (still sticking to the example):I have a working command which on input takes the names of the nodes (as in lw list ex. 'a'), and on input returns a list of nodes on the shortest path from X to Y. What I need to be doing now, is to take the length of it withAnd substract 1 from it (it's counting the "starting" point as well, so it's correcting it). Then I have to put this number in a corresponding place in a list. I would like to do it in a loop, so it would automatically append numbers to existing lists, so I would automatically get fromtoDon't worry, about it calculating the path twice (ex. from a to b and then from b to a), It doesn't have to be perfect ;) I tried to create such method, but I have no idea, how to store the results in said lists (or if I'm even correct). Here is my proposition:
What couldn't you manipulate with a dictionary?dis_a, dis_b, dis_c... could as well be dis['a'], dis['b'] and dis['c']...You could do:Want to loop over all dis-es now?If you want to add elements, and find min and max (as requested in the comments):Let's say initially dis['a'] gets [0, 1, 2]and ...and now you want to add a new item to all of the dis-es...and now you want to find the max ...
If I'm correct you want to dynamically create variables.Here is short answer, for more information checkout this post How can you dynamically create variables via a while loop? Actually there you can find different approaches like using a dict.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#dictionaries
