Natural Text
I have read in a number of threads that Python / cannot pickle lambda functions. However the following code works, using Python 2.7.6:So what is going on? Or, rather, what is the limit of pickling lambdas?[EDIT]I think i know why this code runs. I forgot (sorry!) i am running stackless python, which has a form of micro-threads called tasklets executing a function. These tasklets can be halted, pickled, unpickled and continued, so i guess (asked on the stackless mailing list) that it also provides a way to pickle function bodies.
Yes, python can pickle lambda functions… but only if you have something that uses  to register how to pickle lambda functions -- the package  loads the  you need into the pickle registry for you, when you .get dill here: https://github.com/uqfoundation
No, Python can't pickle lambda functions:Not sure what you did that succeeded...
Python can pickle lambdas. We will cover Python 2 and 3 separately as implementation of pickle are different in different Python versions.Python 2.7 uses pickle registry which is nothing but a mapping from  to the function to use for serializing (pickling) objects of that type.You can see pickle registry as:To pickle custom types, Python provides  module to register our functions. You can read more about it here. By default, module supports pickling of the following additional types:Now, type of  functions is . However, the builtin function for this type  is not able to serialize lambda functions. Therefore, all third party libraries like , , etc override the inbuilt method to serialize lambda functions with some additional logic. Let's import  and see what it does.Now, let's try to pickle lambda function.It WORKS!!  In Python 2 we have two versions of  - Now, let's try to pickle lambda with C implementation .What went wrong? Let's see the dispatch table of .The implementation of  and  is different.  dill makes only Python version of  work. The disadvantage of using  instead of  is that it can be as much as 1000 times slower than cPickle.Python 3.6In Python 3, there is no module named . We have  instead which also doesn't support pickling of  functions by default. Let's see it's dispatch table:Wait. I tried looking up dispatch_table of  not .  is the alternative and faster C implementation of pickle. But we haven't imported it yet! This C implementation is imported automatically, if it is available, at the end of pure Python  module.We are still left with the question of pickling lambdas in Python 3. The answer is you CAN'T with the native  or . You will need to import  or cloudpickle and use that instead of the native pickle module.I hope this clears all the doubts.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/copyreg.html
