Natural Text
I am using Mock 1.0.1 python.In the path function definition there are two optional arguments names spec and spec_set (also auto_spec)I have read through the documentation, but find no explanation of them. Maybe they are terms of testing? It will be nice if someone can give information, thank you.
 in Python 3.x is basically same with .According to the  documentation:spec: This can be either a list of strings or an existing object (a  class or instance) that acts as the specification for the mock object.  If you pass in an object then a list of strings is formed by calling  dir on the object (excluding unsupported magic attributes and  methods). Accessing any attribute not in this list will raise an  AttributeError.If spec is an object (rather than a list of strings) then __class__  returns the class of the spec object. This allows mocks to pass  isinstance tests.spec_set: A stricter variant of spec. If used, attempting to set or  get an attribute on the mock that isn’t on the object passed as  spec_set will raise an AttributeError.Update Difference between  and .With , you can set attribute that is not specified, while with , it is not allowed to set unspecified attribute.Example:
You can find more info here: http://www.voidspace.org.uk/downloads/mock-1.0.1.pdf• spec: This can be either a list of strings or an existing object (a class or instance) that acts as the specification for the mock object. If you pass in an object then a list of strings is formed by calling dir on the object (excluding unsupported magic attributes and methods). Accessing any attribute not in this list will raise an AttributeError. If spec is an object (rather than a list of strings) then class returns the class of the spec object. This allows mocks to pass isinstance tests.• spec_set: A stricter variant of spec. If used, attempting to set or get an attribute on the mock that isn’t on the object passed as spec_set will raise an AttributeError.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.mock.html
