Natural Text
Hello, I'm Anant Narayan. I'm 10 years old. I want to upgrade the  default Python3 which is Python 3.5.3 to Python 3.7.2. When googled I found many sites telling how to install latest  python 3.5 and other versions including python 3.7.0 but none of these  sites were telling how to upgrade from python 3.5.3 to python 3.7.2  .So I tried to install Python 3.7.2 instead of upgrading the default  Python 3.5.3. After some searches I got a guide on How to install Python 3.7 on Raspberry Pi.Here is the link to the website: https://www.ramoonus.nl/2018/06/30/installing-python-3-7-on-raspberry-pi/ . So I followed the steps and successfully installed Python 3.7.0 on my Raspberry Pi 3 and set the alias of python and python3 to python3.7.0 and now when I enter  or  it gives me 3.7.0. But now I have another problem that is when I shutdown or reboot my Pi and switches it back on and I type  it gives me 2.7.13 and   it gives me 3.5.3. So please help me with this matter. Thanks in advance.
Great that you are having fun with your PI! I hope I can help you, please leave a comment if you have more questions.In Linux, an  is a setting in your shell, the program that you talk with to control your PI. But as soon as you leave your PI, the shell program is closed and the  setting is thrown away.To make the change permanent, you can either add the  setting to the startup file of your shell (the file  in your home directory), or better, change the links.To change , type the following exactly (better to use copy-paste):The file  is read during login, so to activate the change you must log out and log in again.In Unix, a link is a file that points to another file.  normally points to , and  points to . You can see links by adding the  ( for long) option to , for example . Links have permissions set to .I would leave the  link alone, this is used by the operating system and that expects certain libraries to be installed that are probably not installed in your new python.If your new python is , you can change the  link by typing the following commands:
After that simply do:Hope this work


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/using/unix.html#building-python
