Natural Text
I'm worked on PHP previously and want to know python web programming. But everything for me is ambiguous.Is it possible to program web app using python without "any" framework?I know frameworks make everything easy for us and even if it is possible program web app without framework , it is not logical for big projects. But my target is just learning because I think start programming with frameworks is not good idea and we should know some information about pure python in web applications. So Imagine I want make very very simple webpage like hello world or small counter or small api. please do not offer me lightweight frameworks like flask. I just want know can pure python create webpages?
Yes, technically, you can create a webpage with "pure python," but you certainly wouldn't want to!  The most beautiful part of programming is the fact that there are millions of others who have worked hard to create "frameworks," such as  or , that massively simplify the work that is required to make an application. If your goal is "just learning" then using a framework that you are unfamiliar with is a great way to start.  Learning programming is not about the technical knowledge required to run every aspect of your code, rather it is all about knowing how to ask the right questions for the particular application you are trying to build.Programmers are lazy.  If there is a shortcut that can be taken in code, you should take it (unless you have a really good reason not to).Think of this example:I have a list that was converted to a string:How can I convert this string to a format that my computer can interpret as a list?I could make a function like this:And call it like this:Or I could simply use the wonderful  package in the default python library and achieve the same results:All credit for the  function goes to the creators of the ast package, as I merely copied it from source code.To add an example of a "good reason" to create your own package/framework, lets say I need to use the  function for whatever reason.  As we all know,  is dangerous and, generally speaking, shouldn't be used.  If I really need to use it, and there aren't any alternatives (cough cough, ), the only solution would be to create my own version of the  function, to avoid having exploitable code.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/ast.html
