Natural Text
In my code, I define a series of buttons using a  loop and when the green one is pressed it runs a function. My problem I think is that when it runs the function it is doing it inside of the  class and thus not using the global value that I want it to. is 11 rows by 2 columns of numbers. and  are integers defined at the start.The error occurs in the  function on the assignment lines for  and . The error shown is:Full code:
The error is telling you that when you try to do  You are indexing something (an integer in this case) that is not iterable (cannot be indexed). Based on your variable names I would guess that  is a list and from the error I would guess it looks something like:So let's say your  is 2, thenequates toBecause ProjectList indexed at 2 -> 7. You are then asking the computer to split 7 into an iterable list/string and then take the first value (0th index). This doesn't physically make sense to do. Since it is the first item you are going for anyways I would recommend trying:This would just reduce to:In our example above, which is what I think you are trying to do. For a more appropriate answer though you will need to provide many more details to create an MCVE that we can help with (Check the link in the comment @Prune left for you)UPDATEWith your full code I found that And therefore your line  does not make any sense because you are trying to add an integer with a list.
I think the problem is you don't understand how global variables work in Python and what the  statement does (i.e. it doesn't "define" a variable). Those  statements at the beginning don't really do anything — except perhaps to act as documentation — because they're at the module-level and any variables defined there would be global anyway. statements are need inside any function that wishes to change the value of the variable (it's not needed to just reference the current value of one).Given that information, avoid the  can be avoided by changing your code as I've as indicated below with  comments. That said, I can't tell if your program really works correctly now because I don't really understand what you're trying to make it do. Having function parameters and global variables with the same name but different types is at best very confusing (as pointed out by @acw1668 in a comment under your question as well as in @Reedinationer's answer).


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/simple_stmts.html#the-global-statement
