Natural Text
I was just wondering if it's possible to open a headless browser with the webbrowser module? I'm new to programming and have virtually no experience and don't even know where to look. I heard this is a good site to start. I wanted to use the webbrowser module because I'm planning to run the program on other computers and the average person doesn't have special software like chrome drivers installed on their computers, also webbrowser doesn't require a PATH to open a browser window. So I wanted to use it. If anyone knows any other alternative modules that can open common browsers without needing a PATH please say so.
Most modules have a so-called API documentation. For the webbrowser module, it can be found here: https://docs.python.org/3.6/library/webbrowser.htmlIf you come across a module of which you cannot find any documentation, try  in iPython:There one can see, that this is no documented feature for the webbrowser module. Nevertheless, there are other modules that you might want to look into - this list seems to be a good start https://github.com/dhamaniasad/HeadlessBrowsersBtw. to respond to Basile Starynkevitch (I have not yet enough reputation to add a comment under other posts): A headless browser might process JavaScript and follow HTML forwarding. You will not get the same from the software you mentioned.
Wrong terminology: a headless browser should be more generally called some HTTP client. Read much more about HTTP and take time to understand what should happen in the HTTP clients and what should happen in the HTTP servers. Be also aware of HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX and other web technologies. They are related in their usage within a usual browser such as Firefox, but conceptually independent.Of course, your typical browser is an HTTP client, but there are many other HTTP clients (e.g.  or any program using libcurl, which is a good free software HTTP client library or web crawlers).Some browsers (e.g. links) can be much more crude than your typical one, but all browsers are HTTP clients. They might not even know about JavaScript or CSS (or not even show any image). They still deserve to be called "browsers". Some programs (e.g. selenium) reproduce many functions of typical browsers (even JavaScript or CSS) but don't show anything on a screen. You might call them headless browsers but they might not even claim being one.And Python includes some HTTP client (and also HTTP server) functions.You could find other HTTP server libraries, such as libonion.Many programs use HTTP (outside of browsing, e.g. as inter-process communication). Be aware of web services.PS. That is the first time I read about headless browsers, so I don't think this terminology is very common.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/http.html
