Natural Text
So I am running a Python script within which I am calling Python's debugger, PDB by writing:(iPython's version of PDB, though for the matter I don't think it makes a difference; I use it for the colored output only).Now, when I get to the debugger I want to execute a multi-line statement such as an if clause or a for loop but as soon as I typeand hit the return key, I get the error message How can one execute multi-line statements within PDB? If not possible is there a way around this to still executing an if clause or a for loop?
You could do this while in pdb to launch a temporary interactive Python session with all the local variables available:When you're done, use Ctrl-D to return to the regular pdb prompt.Just don't hit Ctrl-C, that will terminate the entire pdb session.
Inside the Python (2.7.1) interpreter or debugger (import pdb), you can execute a multi-line statement with the following syntax.Note: When I'm inside the interpreter, I have to hit return twice before the code will execute.  Inside the debugger, however, I only have to hit return once.
In python3  (and ) have a command called interact. It can be used to: Start an interactive interpreter (using the code module) whose global namespace contains all the (global and local) names found in the current scope.To use it, simply enter  at the pdb prompt. Among other things, it's useful for applying code spanning multiple lines, and also for avoiding accidental triggering of other pdb commands.
My recommendation is to use IPython embedding.
There is the special case if you want a couple of commands be executed when hitting a break point. Then there is the debugger command . It allows you to enter multiple lines of commands and then end the whole sequence with the  key word. More with .
I don't know if you can do this, that'd be a great feature for ipdb though. You can use list comprehensions of course, and execute simple multi-line expressions like:You could also write some functions beforehand to do whatever it is you need done that would normally take multiple lines.
Write your code in a text editor, then paste it into the debugger:It is a silly solution, but also dirty quick and work. It works on Linux terminal, but I am not sure if it will work on Windows console.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html#pdbcommand-interact
https://docs.python.org/3/library/code.html#module-code
