Natural Text
I am learning about classes in Python, using Python 3.4.1 and am attempting to make a class and then call the methods from that class.  I have looked at other questions related to this and unfortunately, I can't seem to make it work.  Here is my class (copied straight from the book)and this is how I'm calling it from another file (in the same folder):and this is the error I'm getting:I can type import Counter just fine into the shell, but when I get to h = Counter() I get the same error.  I know I'm doing something wrong, but what?
You named your module Counter too; the class is contained in the module:Alternatively, import the class from the module:This is why the Python style guide recommends you use all lower-case names for your modules. In Python, the module name does not have to match the class contained, and you are not limited to just one class in a module. A module can contain just functions or any other Python object too.Had you named your module file counter (all lowercase) instead, it would perhaps have been more obvious that the module and contained class are two distinct concepts. :-)
In simple terms, the line:only makes the module Counter available for use.  If you want to use one of the tools that it contains, such as the class Counter, you need to qualify it with the module name:Or, you can import the tools you want directly:Here is a reference on importing in Python.Also, PEP 8, the official style guide for Python code, states that module names should be lowercase:Modules should have short, all-lowercase names. Underscores can be  used in the module name if it improves readability. Python packages  should also have short, all-lowercase names, although the use of  underscores is discouraged.Therefore, it would be best if you renamed the Counter module to counter.
You want Counter.Counter instead, because your file is named Counter.py as well.If you don't call h = Counter.Counter(), you are basically trying to invoke the module as a function:You have two options.1. Call import Counter and then call h = Counter.Counter()2. Call from Counter import Counter and then call h = Counter()


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/simple_stmts.html#grammar-token-import_stmt
