Natural Text
This program will ask the user a series of questions about two numbers. These two numbers will be generated randomly between 1 and 10 and it will ask the user 10 times. At the end of these 10 questions the program will display how many the user got correct out of those questions.Each question should randomly decide between asking for the product, sum, or difference. Separate the question asking into a function, as well as the validating user input.I tried using with three product, sum or difference in random to generate. I tried to use z = random.randint(1, 4) is to select from 1 is product, 2 is sum, or 3 is difference and then I used with if variable z is 1, then do product math or if var z is 3, then it should be difference like this x / y, but I couldn't figure it finish it up. I have the expected result when I first run with product but it works so I just need to add with sum and difference included. EXPECTED OUTPUT with product (Some are incorrect for testing with scores): My Work for Product Only (Success):My Currently Work: (I am working to add sum and difference like the expected output UPDATED: After the expected output works well with product so I am trying to add new random int for z with 1-3 which means I am using with 1 is for product, 2 is for sum and 3 is difference by using if-statement by given random select. I am struggle at this is where I stopped and figure it out how to do math random because I am new to Python over a month now. OUTPUT:With this currently output, I double checked with corrected Python formatting and everything are sensitive, and still the same as running output. Any help would be more appreciated with explanation. (I hope my English is okay to understand since i'm deaf) I have started this since on Saturday, than expected on time to meet. 
Your problem is that python 3 does not allow mixing spaces and tabs for indentation. Use an editor that displays the whitespace used (and fix manually) or one that replaces tabs into spaces. It is suggested to use 4 spaces for indentation - read PEP-0008 for more styling tips.You can make your program less cryptic if you use '+','-','*','/' instead of 1,2,3,4 to map your operation: ops = random.choice("+-*/") gives you one of your operators as string. You feed it into a calc(a,ops,b) function and return the correct result from it.You can also shorten your askNum and provide the text to print. These could look like so:Last but not least you need to fix the division part - you allow only integer inputs so you can also only give division problems that are solveable using an integer answer.Program:Output:
Write your block like this your u = askNum() and next if loop should be on same vertical line.
To Generate n number of random number you can use User this as reference for more info on randomThe following stores a random number(int)to compare it with the list for operators.Example: operator = 2than this code will executed and because operator=2, 3rd element from list(/) will be selected Output:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.choice
