Natural Text
I am new to python and programming in Terminal. I am trying to install and then access lxml but I already installed Canopy, and I don't know how to get to the normal installation directory or how to make sure that Canopy can see the installation. Question:How do you install lxml on Mac OSX?Attempts so far:First, I tried:Showing my complete ignorance, I figured that maybe I need to be in python environment to import it, but that is not the case either:On SO, I learned that most folks say that you need to make sure that the underlying libraries are installed. So, I did this:Someone else suggested that you should check the static dependencies. So, I did this:I found this confusing, and I cannot figure out what to do. I am not sure even how I can check the libxml2 installed because I just run into these errors that nothing exists or the command -get does not work. Background:I need to be able to use python for xml parsing and data analysis. I purchased Wes McKinney's book on Python for Data Analysis, and he suggests using Enthought's EPD (but it is now Canopy). I downloaded Canopy. Then, to do what I need to do (about half way through the book), it has you use lxml. Google searches and reading SO suggest that Mac OSX already comes with libxml2 and libxlstPossible helpful details:My bash profile only contains:I am running: Max OS X Version 10.7.5I installed XCode and installed "Command Line Tools" Please forgive my ignorance. I've ready every question that I can find related to this on SO and searched. I may be missing something basic. Thanks.
You need to install lxml and then run Python before importing it.This is a pretty basic question, your best bet is to read through and follow along with the Python tutorial or an introductory book to Python programming.  You'll have a very difficult time following along with the book without a basic understanding of Python.The tutorials in the official documentation are good, and are available for both Python 3 and 2:Python 3 TutorialPython 2 Tutorial


Answer URL
