Natural Text
I am trying to  the  package, but I get an .Any ideas?
In Python 3,  has been renamed to  for PEP 8 compliance. It looks like the package you are installing does not support Python 3.
You can instead use the  package as a drop-in replacement for MySQL-python. It is a fork of  with added support for Python 3.I had luck with simplyin my python3.4 virtualenv afterwhich is obviously specific to ubuntu/debian, but I just wanted to share my success :)
Here is a code that should work in both Python 2.x and 3.xObviously you will need the  module, but it's almost impossible to write modules that work in both versions without six.
MySQL-python is not supported on python3 instead of this you can use mysqlclient If you are on  install following package
Then try to install the MYSQL-python again.That Worked for me 
Compatibility of Python 2/3 for  can be solved simply by  library
If you are using CentOS, then you need to use
I got further with Valeres answer:pip install configparser  sudo cp /usr/lib/python3.6/configparser.py /usr/lib/python3.6/ConfigParser.py  Then try to install the MYSQL-python again. That Worked for meI would suggest to link the file instead of copy it. It is save to update.  I linked the file to  directory.
I was having the same problem. Turns out, I needed to install python3 devel on my centos. First, you need to search for the package that is compatible with your system.Then, install the package as:Then, install mysqlclient from pip
 still gives the "configparser error," and I don't know why this hasn't been corrected by now.
how about checking the version of Python you are using first. 
I run kali linux- Rolling and I came across this problem ,when I tried running cupp.py in the terminal, after updating to python 3.6.0. After some research and trial I found that changing     to     worked for me but then I came across another issue.After a bit more research I realised that for python 3     is changed to     but note that it has an attribute     .
Try this solution which worked fine for me.Basically it's to reinstall/upgrade to latest version of mysql from brew, and then installing  or  from  instead of .Then accessing the  and successfully install  or .
Kindly to see what is  pointing toif it is pointing to   change to This should solve the issue.I was getting install error for all the python packages. Abe Karplus's solution & discussion gave me the hint as to what could be the problem. Then I recalled that I had manually changed the  from  to , which actually was causing the issue. Once I  the same. It got solved. 
This worked for me 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html
