Natural Text
So I am in the process of learning python and I ran into this code that is confusing me. I don't understand why it doesn't just print "passed" 5 times... instead it prints it like 100 times.What exactly is continue doing? If I change var to like (3) will it just "continue" to the next code block?
 continues to the next loop iteration.  See the documentation.However, in this case it doesn't matter, since the  will never be reached.   starts at 95 and can only increase, so it will never be less than 10.This code is a bit strange because only the last  will ever execute.  Perhaps you meant to use  somewhere in the loop?
As BrenBarn says,  just skips the rest of the loop and goes on to the next iteration.But it doesn't matter when  starts at 95, because that code never gets reached. Let's trace through and see what happens:If I change var to like (3) will it just "continue" to the next code block?No, it continues to the next iteration of the  loop—meaning it skips over the  part. If you want to break out of the loop and go to the next code block, that's  rather than .Now, let's trace through what happens if you start with 3:Because of the , it never gets to the , so it just loops 100 times without doing anything.Which means if you tried to test it with, say, a  after the loop, it would look an awful lot like it just skipped to the next block of code. But if you put a  there, you'll see that it's 99, not 0. Or, if you  something before , you'll see it happen 100 times.
This example is a little weird because you are using var and items differently.  Let me rewrite the example to be a little more clear.This will output:The reason your example doesn't only run five times is because you aren't using the variable var in your for loop.  Because of the range(0, 100), your for loop is going to happen 100 times with the variable item being incremented each time.  For it to happen five times as you would expect, you would need to use var in your range function as such:
 skips to the next iteration of the loop, without executing any other statements.In this case, the  statement won't be hit, since var starts at 95 and is only incremented.
I suspect you meant to reset var to zero when it hit 100?


Answer URL
