Natural Text
I have read the links below, but it doesn't address my question.Does Python have a ternary conditional operator? (the question is about  condensing if-else statement to one line)Is there an easier way of writing an if-elif-else statement so it fits on one line?For example,[UPDATE]I just feel if the example above could be written the following way, it could look like more concise.
No, it's not possible (at least not with arbitrary statements), nor is it desirable. Fitting everything on one line would most likely violate PEP-8 where it is mandated that lines should not exceed 80 characters in length.It's also against the Zen of Python: "Readability counts". (Type  at the Python prompt to read the whole thing).You can use a ternary expression in Python, but only for expressions, not for statements:Edit:Your revised question now shows that the three statements are identical except for the value being assigned. In that case, a chained ternary operator does work, but I still think that it's less readable:
If you only need different expressions for different cases then this may work for you:For example:
Just nest another if clause in the else statement.  But that doesn't make it look any prettier.
There's an alternative that's quite unreadable in my opinion but I'll share anyway just as a curiosity:More info here: https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#boolean-operations-and-or-not
You can optionally actually use the  method of a :You don't need the  method if one of the keys is guaranteed to evaluate to :At most one of the keys should ideally evaluate to . If more than one key evaluates to , the results could seem unpredictable.
It also depends  on teh nature of your expressions. The general advice on the other answers of "not doing it" is quite valid for generic statements and generic expressions.But if all you need is a "dispacth" table, like, calling a different function depending on the value of a given option, you can put the functions to call inside a dictionary. Something like:(that  instead of)
People have already mentioned ternary expressions. Sometimes with a simple conditional assignment as your example, it is possible to use a mathematical expression to perform the conditional assignment. This may not make your code very readable, but it does get it on one fairly short line. Your example could be written like this:The comparisons would be True or False, and when multiplying with numbers would then be either 1 or 0. One could use a + instead of an | in the middle.
If you want to use the above-mentioned code in one line, you can use the following:  On doing so, x will be assigned 2 if i > 100, 1 if i < 100 and 0 if i = 100
You can use nested ternary if statements.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#boolean-operations-and-or-not
