Natural Text
I'm running pylint on some code, and receiving the error "Too few public methods (0/2)". What does this message mean? The pylint docs are not helpful: Used when class has too few public methods, so be sure it's really worth it.
The error basically says that classes aren't meant to just store data, as you're basically treating the class as a dictionary. Classes should have at least a few methods to operate on the data that they hold.If your class looks like this:Consider using a dictionary or a  instead. Although if a class seems like the best choice, use it. pylint doesn't always know what's best.Do note that  is immutable and the values assigned on instantiation cannot be modified later.
If you are extending a class, then my suggestion is to systematically disable this warning and move on, e.g., in the case of Celery tasks:Even if you are only extending a single function, you definitely need a class to make this technique function, and extending is definitely better than hacking on the third-party classes!
This is another case of 's blind rules."Classes are not meant to store data" - this is a false statement. Dictionaries are not good for everything. A data member of a class is something meaningful, a dictionary item is something optional. Proof: you can do  to prevent a , but there is no simple  with default.EDIT - recommended ways for using structsI need to update my answer. Right now - if you need a , you have two great options:a) Just use These is a library for that:https://www.attrs.org/en/stable/What you get extra: not writing constructors, default values, validation, , read-only objects (to replace , even in Python 2) and more.b) Use  (Py 3.7+)Following hwjp's comment, I also recommend :https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.htmlThis is almost as good as , and is a standard library mechanism ("batteries included"), with no extra dependencies, except Python 3.7+.Rest of Previous answer is not great - especially before python 3's :https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.NamedTuple- you definitely should check out the "class derived from " pattern.Python 2 -  created from string descriptions - is ugly, bad and "programming inside string literals" stupid.I agree with the two current answers ("consider using something else, but pylint isn't always right" - the accepted one, and "use pylint suppressing comment"), but I have my own suggestion.Let me point this out one more time: Some classes are meant just to store data.Now the option to also consider - use -ies.Above you have read-only properties, which is OK for Value Object (e.g. like those in Domain Driven Design), but you can also provide setters - this way your class will be able to take responsibility for the fields which you have - for example to do some validation etc. (if you have setters, you can assign using them in the constructor, i.e.  instead of direct , but careful, the setters may assume other fields to be initialized already, and then you need custom validation in the constructor).
I added an extra method to my classproblem solved


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html
https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.NamedTuple
