Natural Text
I have a Ttk Notebook widget containing 8 Frames - so, 8 tabs. Each frame contains a Text widget. I have a button outside the Notebook widget, and I want to insert text into the current tabs Text widget when this button is pressed.This would seem to require working out which widget in the Notebook is currently selected, but I can't seem to find how to do this. How would I find the currently selected tab?Alternatively, how can I implement what I want to?If it helps, here's the code for my notebook:
You can retrieve the selected tab through  method. However, this method returns a tab_id which is not much useful as is.  convert it to the number of the selected tab.Note that you coud also get more information about the selected tab using You might look at Notebook reference documentation : http://docs.python.org/3/library/tkinter.ttk.html#notebook
You can get currently selected tab using the  keyword:Check this website:https://docs.python.org/2/library/ttk.html#tab-identifiers24.2.5.3. Tab Identifiers
I am not a expert at all but hope i can help with some "fresh eyes".I imagine it could be something involvingHope it works or get you in the right direction.Please feel free to edit as I am fairly new here amd with python :-)
There are two simple ways to see which tab is selected:andThe  method can also be used to select which tab is currently active, via .  Without the arg, it returns the tabId (in "name" form) of the current selection.The  converts a tabId into a numerical index. It also can take the string "end" which will return the number of tabs. So,  is like a  method for a notebook widget.When there are no tabs,  returns an empty string, but  throws an exception. So, if you want the index, I would sayis the best way to go.In your particular case, you would probably want to grab the current notebook tab name and then convert that name into the actual child text widget, via the  method, for manipulation. So...The  method maps a Tkinter name to the actual widget. It is a method callable by any actual widget.


Answer URL
