Natural Text
I'm trying to read a file and to save the text inside as a list containing strings,(each object in the list is a string which is one line in the text)i only managed to print out the text line by line , and not as a list.the text is a long list of biological stuff (random letter if you ask me (:)and-only printed the file (did seperated the lines..)where did i go wrong ?how do i set it into a list ?
The result of  is a list. Just print :
Martijn Pieters already gives a simple and complete answer, but it's worth learning how to figure these things out yourself. It's usually faster, and it doesn't cost you a half-dozen downvotes.First, the fact that you can use  means that  is obviously some kind of list-ish object, in that it can be used in a  loop the same way a  can. Technically, this means it's an "iterable".Maybe this means it's already a ? If so, you're already done. If not, the  function takes any iterable and makes it into a , so, you can just add  and you're done.How do you find out which?Well, you can add  to your code and see what it prints out. If it says , you're done; if it says anything else, you need to add the conversion line .It's often easier to do this all interactively, rather than in a script:If you break this down into pieces, you can see the types of each piece separately:When you put this all together in one line, , the end result is the same as if you did it in three steps— is a .But what if you can't figure something out by experimenting, because you don't know what to try?Well, the interactive interpreter has built-in help:It says right there that it returns a .Or, you can look at the documentation. Trying to guess where  might be in 3.x is actually a bit complicated, because the type of thing  returns is not obvious… but you can just use the "quick search" on the left, and you'll find , which gives you the same answer:Read and return a list of lines from the stream. hint can be specified to control the number of lines read: no more lines will be read if the total size (in bytes/characters) of all lines so far exceeds hint.
As Martijn said, .readlines() converts a file into a list and cycles through them. However, this is what I think you are trying to do.
As Martijn said, the readlines() method returns a list as said in the python documentation .If what you need is to convert a string to a list use this: ast helperHope this is what you need!


Answer URL
