Natural Text
I'm using python3.3.I want to get a  object and use it to make a new  object.It goes something like that:Well, the problem is obvious here -  doesn't accept  as a value:But what is not obvious (to me) is the solution. How will I call  so it will work in every case?I'm searching for a nice pythonic way to do it.Thanks :)
TryThis will reinterpret  and  appropriately if they are .Another option could be the  method of a slice. It is called with the number of entries and reinterprets  to the appropriate values and wraps negative values around the given length parameter:It depends what you intend to do with negative indices...
There's an easier way to do this (at least in 3.4, I don't have 3.3 at the moment, and I don't see it in the changelog).Assuming your class already has a known length you can just slice a range of that size:If you don't know the length a priori you'll have to do:
The problem:A slice consists of , , and  parameters and can be created with either slice notation or using the   built-in.  Any (or all) of the , , and  parameters can be .However, as pointed out in the original question, the  function does not accept  arguments.  You can get around this in various ways...The solutionsWith conditional logic:...which can get unnecessarily complex since any or all of the parameters may be .With conditional variables:... which is explicit, but a little verbose.With conditionals directly in the statement:... which is also unnecessarily verbose.With a function or lambda statement:...which can be difficult to understand.With 'or':I find using  to assign sensible default values the simplest. It's explicit, simple, clear, and concise.Rounding out the implementationTo complete the implementation you should also handle integer indexes (, , etc) by checking  (see int vs numbers.Integral).Define  to allow for using  for a default stop value.Finally raise an appropriate  for invalid indexes (e.g. strings, etc).TL;DR;
I would special-case the  branch:and you'll handle ranges that need to count down correctly.
In your last example ,  and you are trying to do , which of course causes the error. Fast way to fix:But it is just to show you your problem. It is not the best approach.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#slice
