Natural Text
What is a global statement? And how is it used?  I have read Python's official definition;however, it doesn't make a lot of sense to me.
Every "variable" in python is limited to a certain scope.  The scope of a python "file" is the module-scope.  Consider the following:Objects with local scope die as soon as the function exits and can never be retrieved (unless you  them), but within a function, you can access variables in the module level scope (or any containing scope):However, you can't use assignment on that reference and expect that it will be propagated to an outer scope:Now, we're finally to .  The  keyword is the way that you tell python that a particular variable in your function is defined at the global (module-level) scope.In other words, you can change the value of  in the module-scope from within  if you use the  keyword.As an aside, scopes can be nested arbitrarily deep:Now in this case, none of the variables are declared at the global scope, and in python2, there is no (easy/clean) way to change the value of  in the scope of  from within .  That's why the  keyword was introduced in python3.x .   is an extension of  that allows you to modify a variable that you picked up from another scope in whatever scope it was pulled from.
mgilson did a good job but I'd like to add some more.Inside a function, Python assumes every variable as local variableunless you declare it as global, or you are accessing a global variable. was possible because you are accessing the 'list1' and lists are mutable. was possible because you are initializing a local variable.However if you uncomment #list1 = [9], you will getIt means you are trying to initialize a new local variable 'list1' but it was already referenced before,and you are out of the scope to reassign it.To enter the scope, declare 'list1' as global.I strongly recommend you to read this even though there is a typo in the end.
Basically it tells the interpreter that the variable its given should be modified or assigned at the global level, rather than the default local level.

You can use a global variable in other functions by declaring it as global in each function that modifies itPython wants to make sure that you really know that's what you're playing with by explicitly requiring the global keyword.See this answer


Answer URL
