Natural Text
I'm getting this error when I run my python script:I'm pretty sure the 'str' means string, but I dont know what a 'NoneType' object is. My script craps out on the second line, I know the first one works because the commands from that line are in my asa as I would expect. At first I thought it may be because I'm using variables and user input inside send_command.Everything in 'CAPS' are variables, everything in 'lower case' is input from 'parser.add_option' options.I'm using pexpect, and optparse
 is the type for the  object, which is an object that indicates no value.  is the return value of functions that "don't return anything". It is also a common default return value for functions that search for something and may or may not find it; for example, it's returned by  when the regex doesn't match, or  when the key has no entry in the dict. You cannot add  to strings or other objects.One of your variables is , not a string. Maybe you forgot to  in one of your functions, or maybe the user didn't provide a command-line option and  gave you  for that option's value. When you try to add  to a string, you get that exception:One of  or  or  has  as its value.
 is simply the type of the  singleton:From the latter link above:The sole value of the type .  is frequently used to represent the absence of a value, as when default arguments are not passed to a function. Assignments to  are illegal and raise a . In your case, it looks like one of the items you are trying to concatenate is , hence your error.
It means you're trying to concatenate a string with something that is .None is the "null" of Python, and  is its type.This code will raise the same kind of error:
For the sake of defensive programming, objects should be checked against nullity before using.or
In Python, to represent the absence of a value, you can use the  value 
In the error message, instead of telling you that you can't concatenate two objects by showing their values (a string and  in this example), the Python interpreter tells you this by showing the types of the objects that you tried to concatenate. The type of every string is  while the type of the single  instance is called .You normally do not need to concern yourself with , but in this example it is necessary to know that .
Your error's occurring due to something like this:>>>  Python's None object is roughly equivalent to null, nil, etc. in other languages.
One of the variables has not been given any value, thus it is a NoneType. You'll have to look into why this is, it's probably a simple logic error on your part.
A nonetype is the type of a None.See the docs here:https://docs.python.org/2/library/types.html#types.NoneType


Answer URL
