Natural Text
This question already has an answer here:It is more efficient to use if-return-return or if-else-return?                    9 answers                Simple question that I can't find the answer for.Take the function:The below looks nice, i.e. more readable, given the else and the aligned spacing between the two return statement. However the else is completely pointless, and that makes it feel a little dirty.Note the two conditions and the long line, this is to express that the following is not applicable in this example:However the below is not as readable, but only slightly. It is more elegant as the useless else is omitted.Is there a Pythonic bias for either of these styles?If not, is it purely down to the developer?EDIT: To be clear, it is an example function. I was trying to express the need for a function that has a condition and returns true of false.This is a purely stylistic question
In such short cases, I would prefer:it is readable for experienced programmers (who know Python)performance faster than anything below, though the difference will be minimalSecondly, in my view still pythonic (often seen in codewars.com):But I guess, the style guides will recommend:Your second example might not be very pythonic ...In codewars.com I have also often seen:which might be a kind of switch/case imitation in Python, thoughI don't think that style guides will support this ...
If you're just trying to find if the value of a paramater is either True or False, you can use python's built-in function bool.Also, you should check the official docs:https://docs.python.org/3.6/library/functions.htmlHope it helped.
For the example you've given (which is minimal and complete, as it should be), both options are clear and easy to understand.The easiest (and most pythonic) way would be:Let me comment on a more general case. Quoting from :In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess.While the second option might appear more elegant, it is also ambiguous: Are you returning  because  is , or because none of the previous  statements have been triggered?Thinking of a slightly more complex example, I'd suggest to use the final return statement to give you e.g. some default option, a warning, or a ValueError.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/faq/design.html#why-isn-t-there-a-switch-or-case-statement-in-python
