Natural Text
I see this was flagged as a duplicate of "What is the difference between class and instance variables?" However I don't believe I'm using any instance variables in my example, neither of my classes has a  I'm editing class variables in two different ways and trying to understand the difference between them, not the difference between a class and instance variable.I'm trying to understand the difference between calling a class variable just with  and with . I thought it was to do with subclassing so I wrote the following code.This outputs the following:I can't seem to find any difference between calling  and  . How are they different and when should I use one over the other?
While Gabriel Reis's answer explains this particular situation perfectly, there actually is a difference between  and  even if  isn't shadowed by an instance attribute.Compare:And the same is true for .The difference is that, by directly accessing , you're making an end-run around the descriptor protocol, which is the thing that makes methods, , and similar things work.If you want the full details, read the linked HOWTO, but the short version is that there's a bit more to it than Gabriel's answer says:Python will look up for a name (attribute) first in the instance namespace/dict. If it doesn't find there, then it will look up in the class namespace. If it still doesn't find there, then it will walk through the base classes respecting the MRO (method resolution order).But if it finds it in the class namespace (or any base class), and what it finds is a descriptor (a value with a  method), it does an extra step. The details depend on whether it's a data or non-data descriptor (basically, whether it also has a  method), but the short version is that instead of giving you the value, it calls  on the value and gives you what that value returns. Functions have a  method that returns a bound method; properties have a  method that calls the property get method; etc.
Python will look up for a name (attribute) first in the instance namespace/dict. If it doesn't find there, then it will look up in the class namespace. If it still doesn't find there, then it will walk through the base classes respecting the MRO (method resolution order).What you've done there, is to define the class attributes  and .You never modified any instance namespace.Try this:And you will be able to understand the difference.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/howto/descriptor.html
