Natural Text
I want to make a thread wait until a multithread queue is not empty. The queue has only one producer and one consumer. The producer places tasks in the queue when available but the producer has to wait until two or more tasks have been gathered. The reason why I don't just use the  method twice in order to retrieve two tasks is because it over complicates the flow of the algorithm. That cannot be depicted in the snippet bellow though, because obviously it's just an oversimplified example.I need to know that the queue is not empty so that I can compare the peak of the queue (without removing it) with the element I just removed with How it could be done with sleep:How can I do that without using sleep? Should I use ? If yes, I cannot figure out how I should properly use the  command. Since the thread that I want to make wait is also the consumer and I cannot be sure whether the queue is empty. Even if I use  to check.
Essentially, it seems you need to implement the  method, that would return the next element in the queue without actually removing it.This method is not available in the standard Queue object, but you can inherit and expand it without problems:Now for the contents of new  method, you can simply copy-paste the contents of  method of the base  object with some modifications. You can find it at  if you're on Linux, or  if you're on Windows (not sure about the latter as I'm currently on Linux machine and cannot check). In my copy of Python 2.7, the  method is implemented as:Now, for differences. You don't want to remove the element, so instead of  we define the following:And in the  method, we still use the  Condition but we no longer need the . So the resulting code will look like:
You can use a semaphore, initialized at zero, in parallel to the queue. Let say for example . By default the thread calling  will be blocked as the semaphore is zero without touching the queue. Then when you put someting in the queue, you can call  that will allow one thread to execute (util the next loop is suppose).
Just  will bock your thread (stop its execution) until there is something to retrieve from the queue. When an item is availabe in the queue it will be returned by this call. You can add a timeout in case you want to exit if the queue is never feed.See https://docs.python.org/3/library/queue.html#queue.Queue.get.
I want to make a thread wait until a multithread queue is not empty.I want to avoid retrieving the next object, that's why I am not using the get methodIf you don't mind using a sentinel object (I use one I name  to tell my consumer thread we're done so it can wrap up.)in producer:and in worker:I'm not sure why you'd do that though, but this does seem to do what you want it to do.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/queue.html#queue.Queue.get
