Natural Text
I would like to check whether an optional argparse argument has been set by the user or not.Can I safely check using isset?Something like this:Does this work the same for float / int / string type arguments?I could set a default parameter and check it (e.g., set myArg = -1, or "" for a string, or "NOT_SET").  However, the value I ultimately want to use is only calculated later in the script.  So I would be setting it to -1 as a default, and then updating it to something else later. This seems a little clumsy in comparison with simply checking if the value was set by the user.
I think that optional arguments (specified with ) are initialized to  if they are not supplied. So you can test with . Try the example below:
As @Honza notes  is a good test.  It's the default , and the user can't give you a string that duplicates it.You can specify another , and test for that.  But what if the user specifies that string?  Does that count as setting or not?You can also specify .  Then if the user does not use the argument, it will not appear in the  namespace.  But testing that might be more complicated:Internally the  keeps a list of , and uses it for 'required' and 'mutually_exclusive' testing.  But it isn't available to you out side of .
I think using the option  makes most sense. Then, instead of checking if the argument is , one checks if the argument is  the resulting namespace.Example:Usage:Argument is not supplied:
If your argument is positional (ie it doesn't have a "-" or a "--" prefix, just the argument, typically a file name) then you can use the nargs parameter to do this:
You can check an optionally passed flag with  and  argument action options:This way, you don't have to worry about checking by conditional . You simply check for  or . Read more about these options in the docs here
Here is my solution to see if I am using an argparse variable This might give more insight to the above answer which I used and adapted to work for my program.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html#nargs
