Natural Text
I am trying to write a code that determines the winner of a tic-tac-toe game. (This is for a college assignment)I have written the following function to do so:This code only checks for horizontal lines, I haven't added the rest. I feel that this is something that needs a bit of hardcoding.Where "board" is a 2D array of size n^2 and "decorator" is the "X" or "O" valueWhat I hope to accomplish is that the function loops through the 2D array's rows. Then loops through the values in each row. If that element matches the "decorator" then it continues and checks the next but if it doesn't, then it breaks from the first loop and goes to the next row. It does this until it finds n elements in the same row. Then it would give a bool value of True otherwise False.The code doesn't seem to do that and even when I checked with the following "board" it gave me an output of "True"Thank you so much!Best,Seyed
You can just make a set of each row, and check its length. If it contains only one element, then the game has been won.This will return "O" if there is a full line of "O", "X" if there is a line of "X", and -1 otherwise.Below is the code of a full Tic-Tac-Toe checker, it should not be hard to understand, but do not hesitate to ask:Note that this works regardless of the symbols you choose to put in your tic-tac-toe ("O" & "X" is as fine as "bloop" & "!"), and for any size of grid, as long as it is a square.
One way to do this would be to create a set (a generator function would be even better) of all the possible index combinations to check for the win.  Then loop through those index combinations and check if they all contain the same value, if so, then it's a win.
There are a total of 3 states that a cell can have0 if it is not yet filled ( There is a possibility that the game gets over in 5 moves)1 if it is filled with 'X'-1 if it is filled with 'O'I will expand on @EfferLagan answerYou have 3 outputs 1, -1, and 999 ( which means neither won )    checkWin(randomInput)


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#sets
