Natural Text
I have some sample code that iterates through two different ranges of numbers successfully, but I want to add functionality to it so that it moves through the chained ranges randomly like so:However this produces the following error:Can anyone advise the amendments needed to make this function as intended?
A quick fix would be as follows:The problem with your code is that to sample from some iterable randomly, you need to know its length first, but  is an iterable that provides only the  method and no . Basically, to do  or  or anything that involves choosing elements at random, you'll need a sequence or a set, which means that sequence should be finite. Iterables that don't provide the  method are considered infinite as you'll never know how many elements will be produced until the iterable's exhausted, if at all. 
As the  documentation states,Returns a k length list of unique elements chosen from the population sequence or setIt requires a sequence or a set so that it can sample from the entire population, but  returns an iterator which could even be infinite. So  cannot determine the actual size of the population. That is why you are getting this error.To fix this, you can simply create a list or a tuple and pass it to , like thisNote: The other problem in your code is that, the sampling quantity cannot be bigger than the actual population.So the population size is 47 and you are sampling 48 elements.
The issue is that  creates generators, rather than lists. These generators are lazily evaluated, each element exists only briefly and is discarded after use.  The  function is not defined for generators because all the elements don't exist at once.To fix your issue, you'll have to explicitly convert the chain output to a list. 
You have to convert  to a  explicitly. You can try like this:
Im pretty sure you can get the length of a generator type object with the following syntax:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.sample
https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html#itertools.chain
