Natural Text
I working with bigrams and unigrams. My bigrams are a counter of tuples and my unigrams are a list, where I am trying to do the follwingThe following error occurs:I am confused.  Why should this be a problem? uni is essentially a hash, its key values are strings. How can I access u[key]?edit: full code
I tried your code and got a  which happens because your initial bigram has an empty string at position 0 and  is not in your unigrams dictionary. I didn't see a  so that may be from somewhere else in your code. That said, various other comments: You seem to understand what a  does, but you're haphazardly trying to do it yourself while building  -- you can replace your first chunk of code with:You can use  to iterate over pairs and construct your bigrams that way, instead of DIY looping it, which also gets rid of your  issue:So your code becomes:
You are making the mistake of using a tuple when you perhaps need a dictionary. As the error message state, tuples cannot be indexed by a string key - you are expected to use numeric indices.A dict will let you use string keys as you appear to want to.Your updated code gives a much better idea of what you are doing. You start by creating a dict of word counts in . I think the line that readsshould in fact readbecause when that branch is executed you are detecting the first occurrence of a word. Next you create a list of bigram tuples in , and then you count those bigrams.I get a bit lost with the final  loop, though, where   will be the key of a  item and  to be the count. So  will be the first word of the bigram, and  will be the number of times that word appeared in the corpus. Having established these value you then proceed to do nothing with them, and move on to the next most common bigram.Perhaps it's time to do some printing in that final loop? The code as published otherwise looks reasonable.
I have executed your code with  since you said the error was a related to  being a tuple but it actually is a dictionary.The error I got is different, it is a  on  because you are creating a list of tuples  and the first word of  has previous word set as an empty string ( is the initial state). The key at the  line is equal to the first item of the tuple () so as there is no key  in the  dictionary it is throwing a .You may want to get the word, not the previous word of the tuple to be the key used in .


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#zip
