Natural Text
There where many instances where i have to write large line of code over and over again in multiple programs. so i was wondering if i could write just one program, save it and then  call it in different programs like a function or a module.An elementary example :- I write a program to check if a number is palindromic or not. Then i want to write a program to check if a number is a palindromic a prime, could i just call the first program and do the rest of the code to check if it is prime or not.P.S I'm just a beginner at python or computer science for that matter and i use IDLE to do all my python programs.
It is about writing reusable code. I can suggest you to write reusable code in specific function in separate python file and import that file and function too.For example you need function called sum in other function called "bodmas" then write function called sum in one python file say suppose "allimports.py":Now suppose your "bodmas" named function is some other python file then just import all the required functions and use is normally by calling it.One important thing is be specific while import your module as it will effect performance of your code when length of your code is long.Suppose you want to use all functions then you can use two option like :other option is and for specific imports is as follows:
You should check out the python documentation.  If you still have questions then come back.https://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/modules.html
Yes.  Let's say you're writing code in a file called .  Then in another file, or in the python shell you want to use that code.  You would typeeither at the top of the file or just into the shell as a command.  Then you can access functions you've written in  with statements likeIt's important to note that to do this propery, the code in  must be in functions.  If you're not sure how to do that, I recommend the official Python tutorial: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html
it's easy to write a function in python.first define a function is_palindromic,then define a function is_prime,at last, suppose you have a number 123321, you can call above function,ps, maybe you could try to use some editors like vscode or sublime.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html
