Natural Text
I'm following the Flask Mega Tutorial, and I'm running into an issue once I get to the second part and restructure my folder structure to match theirs, I cannot import Flask.My current folder structure is as followsas far as I can tell, the folder structures are identical other than naming of the top level directory.in my __init__.py file (/app/__init__.py), I'm doing as instructed in the tutorial, I'm getting an Import Error that "cannot import name 'Flask'". I'm guessing the issue is because the flask package was installed to /flask/lib/site-packages.My question: How can I reference the sub folder of flask/site-packages?I've read through the python  import system documentation and from what I can make of it through the first pass of reading it over, I would need to likely do something like from flask import flask.Flask or something to that effect.UPDATE: So after cd'ing around the directory and checking pip list, I realized that flask wasn't accessible to my app directory. I ran pip install flask in the app directory. Now my site runs, but I'm not sure if this is the best practice of doing things with Python. Please provide some clarity as what the best practice is for installing packages and where the packages reside.UPDATE 2: After creating a directory called standalone. In this folder, I created a virtual environment called standalone-test. Once, I did that, I also mkdir'ed app and copied it's contents from FlaskTest so that way the code would be identical. I was able to run the run.py script by using , but I can't run  like you had said without running into an error. The error is as follows if it helps."No module name app.main; 'app' is a package and cannot be directly executed. I am able to run  as I mentioned, but I'm not able to run the  command as you had mentioned
I think something went wrong in your execution environment. Here are some explanations.The virtualenvSee the documentation of virtualenvIf you have followed the tutorial:The  directory is your virtualenv,On posix system, you have a  subdirectory, orOn Windows system, you have a  subdirectory.I make the assumption that you are on posix system.To activate your virtualenv, run:Your prompt should change to something like: . To list the installed libraries use :Make sure you see Flask. The tutorial encourages you to install a lot of Flask plugins, so there are a lot of Flask-Something…If Flask is missing, install it:Run your appYour application is in the  directory, it has an  file (it's a Python package).In this file, you have:From your  directory, try to run this script like this:This should import , instanciate your  (but don't run it), import the  module.If  exist you should have no error.=> at this point, we have simulated what  imports…Now write  in your  directory:Run it like this:Note that the shebang  is unusual, but should work in the context of the tutorial.This should start your http server…


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/import.html
