Natural Text
I have a function guess which is supposed to return the key of the set of animal values (arg2) that matches the set of observations (arg1). For instance, if the set of observations = {'pet,' 'fluffy'} and the dictionary of animals = {'cat': {'pet,' 'fluffy', 'cute'}, 'dog': {'pet'}} then the function should return the key of cat because cat has all of the values and set elements that the set of observations has. Notice that cat also has extra values/elements that observations does not. Also notice that dog has one of the values that the set observations has - "pet" - however, dog doesn't have all of the values that the observations set has, and therefore, it isn't returned. This is my function so far:This is a test:So far, my function returns None when I want it to return cat. How do I see if my set of observations matches a set and/or subset of a set of animal values? My mind wants me to incorrectly believe that checking if the set of observations is in the set of values is the best way to compare sets. I've also tried iterating through my observations to see if they're in the set of values. This method works to an extent. However, when I try:It returns dog. I'd appreciate any help. Thanks
Idea is to iterate over all potential animals and see if the observed values are a subset of their respective attributes). I'm assuming there could be multiple animals satisfying the observations.
What you want to know is whether the value of each item in  is a superset of . Thankfully,  has a method to test exactly that, so your function is straightforward:Note that  returns a set, because there may be more than one item in  that matches the criteria:It's also possible to use the  and  operators as synonyms of  and  (not  and , which are synonyms for proper supersets and subsets respectively).
It appears to me that you're looking for the best match (most matched attributes), so I'd propose this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#set.issuperset
