Natural Text
I am trying to write a function using , with .I thought  is the right tool to check if the value is in given range, as given here in python3 doc which says:function receives an argument that has the right type but an inappropriate valueSo, in this my tiny snippet, I am expecting to use ValueError to check range(0-1) which is not doing:which yeilds:Sure, I can do the value checking as:but the ValueError seems do do this thing. There are several question on  here, but none of them checking "inappropriate value, e.g. thisI am a novice and python is not my main language.Kindly give me some insight.
I think you misunderstand what  (and in general, an ) is. are a way for a method to signal to its caller that some critical error condition has been encountered that would prevent that method from executing as intended. Python's  control structure provides a way for the caller to detect those error conditions and react accordingly. is a standard  raised by various methods that perform range-checking of some kind to signal that a value provided to the method fell outside the valid range. In other words, it's a universal way of signaling that error condition.  by itself doesn't do any kind of checking. There are many other standard  like this;  signifies that you tried to access a key in a mapping structure (like a  or ) that didn't exist,  means you tried to index into a list-like structure to an invalid location, etc. None of them actually do anything special in and of themselves, they're simply a way of directly specifying exactly what kind of problem was encountered by the called method.  go hand in hand with the idiom in python that it is generally considered 'easier to ask forgiveness than permission'. Many languages support exceptions of course, but Python is one of the few where you will very frequently see code where the  case is actually a commonly-followed code path rather than one that only happens when something has gone really wrong.Here is an example of the correct use of a :Note there are probably much more direct ways to do what you want, but this is just serving as an example of how to correctly use a .


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#ValueError
