Natural Text
As the title states, how would I find if the string has all digits without using the  or a . The code keeps checking the first character and not all. How do I fix that?

You can use  and a generator expression:This will go through each character in  and see if it is in .  If not,  will immediately stop checking and return .  Otherwise, it will return  after it has confirmed that every character is a digit.  Below is a demonstration:Note too that it would be more efficient if you made  a set:That way,  will perform an  (constant) hash lookup rather than an  (linear) search through the string.  Granted, on strings this small, the performance impact of the linear search is not too worrisome.  However, that will quickly change whenever you are working with larger strings.
Actually, it looks like it is checking every character, but because it sets  for every character, it is the "numberless" of the last character that determines the value returned, regardless of what the other characters are.Instead, you should initialize  to , and only set it to  if you ever find a non-number.  In fact, when that happens, you can immediately return.
If you are chefcking for the fact that all the letters are numbers, you can try the following expression:It is exactly the same as your code except it will also check whether all the characters within  are numbers. This is what has been missing in your code. The return value is always overwritten by the last check. Of course, using a loop and breaking out might be more efficient unless  does that internally for the generator expression, in which case the two are exactly equivalent.
A different approach would be to check them as sets:
Perhaps if you clear up the variable names the problem will be more clear:As you can see, you are evaluating if it is a number for each character, and changing the  variable each time.  So, only the last character will result in proper evaluation.You probably want to just return  when a non-digit is first detected.  Try  set  to  and break the loop.
There are some good answers to do that. Here's another way to do it. You can count the number of characters that are not digits, by storing them in a list, the length of this list should be zero. 


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#all
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#grammar-token-generator_expression
