Natural Text
I have a dictionary:I want to find out which keys have values tuples of which are unique (don't present in any other key's value). From the sample dictionary, key 1 is unique because neither  nor  is present in any other dictionary's key. By getting the list of keys with shared values, I can invert the result later on and get the keys that are unique.I am using a list comprehension for getting keys with shared values:As a result, I am getting  yet I expect duplicates not to be inserted (since I am evaluating whether the key value is in the result list). I can fix that by running the , but would like to understand what is wrong with my code.
The problem is that  is empty until you complete the comprehension, so your  will always return . You cannot refer to the current comprehension. Your best bet is to convert to  as you already suggested.You should change your code to a loop if you want that functionality:result:
Others have already explained what's the problem with your list comprehension. Here's an alternative approach, using a  dictionary to count how often the different  pairs occur and using that to filter the unique entries from the dictionary.Or to get the keys with shared values:Note that this is also more efficient, as you compare each combination of two items from the dictionary, giving you quadratic complexity, while this approach has linear complexity.
Your code cannot work because  is not defined. If you clean up your environment you will see that if you try to run your example you will get a  error.This is because  is not really defined until the comprehension statement runs, you cannot really reference it within the comprehension because it doesn't already exist.If you were to predefine it, for example as  then this would still not work, because every time you would reference it in the comprehension it would reference the original empty list value. When the comprehension is executed it doesn't dynamically change the value of , instead it creates the list in memory and then assigns it to .


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.Counter
