Natural Text
Only the first print command works. I cannot figure out why. I want to display a different prefix and suffix depending on what is passed in.
Referencing to a key that sFox does not have will raise an error.Also, current code seems to only select the prefix even though suffix and prefix are both provided.Looping through a (key, value) pair of the sFox, you might want to change your code as follows.
The problem you're having is, kwargs will NOT contain keys that are not specified. When you try to index a non-existent key of a dictionary, it will raise a KeyError,The most straightforward solution is to check if the key exists before trying to access it:There are also better Pythonic way to do this. As mentioned, dict.get() is a decent option for a default value:This way, if prefix' is not in the dictionary, the value will be None which evaluates to boolean false and perfectly does the trick.Of course, if you don't really need random keyword arguments, try default arguments:IMO this might be a better solution unless you're trying to learn about keyword argument packs.
The problem is you use sFox['prefix'], It will raise key error when you don't pass key parameter prefix in  calling print(joinWords("Tits", suffix="monster")).To fix it you can use sFox.get('prefix'), it will return default None when you don't pass prefix keyword paramter.
sFox['prefix'] will return the item with key prefix in sFox if it exist, or else raise an KeyError.Even worse, if sFox['prefix']: might still not execute your code even if prefix does exist in sFox, since sFox['prefix'] might store the value False.I think what you're actually trying to do with this line is to test if sFox contains an item with key prefix. In Python, the syntax [key] in [dict] is used for that. Your program rewritten in it would look like this:Now to answer your other question: Only the first part ever gets executed since you return in that part, i.e., leave the function. If you want both parts to execute, you must return only after you've added your suffixes and prefixes. Here's an example:Finally, to add a bit of syntactic sugar to the mix - take a look at python default parameter values. With those you can define your function like this:


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#default-argument-values
