Natural Text
Ive been having an issue with getting a random int from a function after going through a while loop. The purpose of the function is to shuffle a deck:and this is the code that uses the function:where total_deck is an array from a file deck.pyThis code works fine over the first iteration of the while loop, but when the loop iterates I get the error:And that the error occurs when is called, since now evaluates to a number equal to or lower than 0? Why is this? 
Options:If you have a set of cards in a list and want to rearrage the whole sequence, simply use random.shuffle(sequence) for an inplace shuffling.If you want to get a shuffled copy of it, use random.sample()  and set the length to the length of the sequence.  This line:presuming maindeck is somekind of mutable list data structure, shuffler references the same data that maindeck does - you are shuffling your maindeck (in disguise) and return it - and further down you are maniputaling it. Youcould use random.sample() instead wich returns a shuffled copy of your maindeck.random.seed() sets the starting-internal state of the Mersenne_Twister that generates your randomness - set it once if you need but not every time you shuffle through your deck. Seeding your random with a fixed value will lead to the same random numbers given u use the same random operations as each random operation changes the internal state - using it without any seed is not needed, its done by default in the sources: see Python's random: What happens if I don't use seed(someValue)?Your code should use random.sample(maindeck,k=len(maindeck)).Code:Output:If you need the cards value, use:
Ah! I see the problem! Your Game "uses up" the main deck because the shuffling() function permutes and returns the original deck:does not create a copy of the main deck. Thustakes its cards from the main deck, too.Fix: make a deep copy of the main deck and use that (in shuffling()):Et voila! a fresh game deck for every game.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.shuffle
https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html#random.sample()
