Natural Text
I’ve been trying to build a basic program that reads a file with two integers (could be empty or have a million entries) separated by a space.  It looks like this (corresponding to the day of the week and the temperature):I am trying to assign the day to a variable called ‘dow’ and the temperature to one called ‘temp’. After the values are gathered (from “input.txt”), I need to use four lists for the count (number of times the day appears), high (for the high temperature), low (for the low), and average (for the average temp). I need to then output to a file (“output.txt”) that shows dow, high, low, average, like this (randomly chosen):I have tried using with() along with readline() in a for loop with limited success. Since I need to perform mathematical calculations with the list data, I don’t know how to read them in as integers. I have read that readline() automatically determines the end of file, but I need it to iterate until it finishes.  I have figured out how to write the output, determine the highs, lows, and averages, but I keep getting errors when I try to use math functions on the data from the input files. I have also had issues when I try assigning values to the lists. I use the ‘index’ variable as a counter for each list. E.g.:Or:The errors I keep getting indicate that I can’t perform math functions on str and int values. I’ve done things like this with arrays in Perl and Java, but I am trying to be pythonic and use lists instead of arrays in Python.
If  is a string,  converts it into an integer, and  converts it into a float.Those 2 functions can raise a  if the string format is not correct.
I assume your data is stored in .txt files. Text files are iterable, thus a good way to retrieve the data is:Now, since you want the stats for every day, I think a dictionary would fit your needs. If we consider the key to be the day, and the value to be a list of every temperature recorded for that given day, we get something like this:For this input:The dictionary would be:Now since you want the min, max and mean, let's work on the lists in the dict:Output:You can of course do other operation, but I think this is enough of an overview of the possibilities.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-iterator
