Natural Text
I would like to find the dimensions of an image on the internet. I tried usingas suggested in this answer, but I get the error message I checked and objects returned by urllib2.urlopen(url) do not seem to have a seek method according to dir.So, what do I have to do to be able to load an image from the Internet into PIL?
You might consider using io.BytesIO for forward compatibility.The StringIO and cStringIO modules do not exist in Python 3.
Using your same example, just use StringIO to wrap the buffer into a proper file-like object:
Using Python requests:
This pull-request adds support for stream-handling native to Pillow (the friendly PIL fork) and should be available from version 2.8.0. This allows the simpler opening remote files with urllib:...or using requests:As mentioned by mjpieters on the PR requests does not automatically decode gzip responses, so if you're downloading images that have been further compressed for whatever reason you must set decode_content=True on the response object before accessing .raw.
The urllib documentation mentions that an object returned by urlopen doesn't support seek operation.This module provides a high-level interface for fetching data across  the World Wide Web. In particular, the urlopen() function is similar  to the built-in function open(), but accepts Universal Resource  Locators (URLs) instead of filenames. Some restrictions apply — it can  only open URLs for reading, and no seek operations are available.However, the PIL.open function explicitly requires it. openImage.open(infile) => imageImage.open(infile, mode) => imageOpens and identifies the given image file. This is a lazy operation;  the actual image data is not read from the file until you try to  process the data (call the load method to force loading). If the mode  argument is given, it must be "r".You can use either a string (representing the filename) or a file  object. In the latter case, the file object must implement read, seek,  and tell methods, and be opened in binary mode.Try using cStringIO module that converts a string into a file-like object.
This answer is 4 years ago, but it's still on top in Google.In Python3,we have simple solution.


Answer URL
https://docs.python.org/3/library/tempfile.html#tempfile.SpooledTemporaryFile
